HISTORY:

19 y.o. male with a history of  Seizure yesterday referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.


"19 yo male with no known seizure d/o brought in by EMS for witnessed seizure activity, post-ictal en
route with normal accucheck, patient awake following commands, stating "he's tired", parents were
notified, no witnessed trauma, not given benzos en route" ; + sister with epilepsy


Medications: none



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. There are age appropriate findings including PSWY.







During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: not done


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 55-60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This awake and asleep routine EEG is WNL.  There are no clinical or electrographic events reported
or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal routine EEG. A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of
epilepsy. If additional information is needed, please consider a 1 hour or sleep deprived EEG
























































































