HISTORY:

51 y.o. Woman referred for seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1.5 tablets by mouth

2 times daily.


butalbital-acetaminophen-caffeine (FIORICET, ESGIC) per tablet,

Take 1 tablet by mouth daily as needed for Headaches (do not take

daily!!!!).


alprazolam (XANAX) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth 3 times daily

as needed for Sleep.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:




A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and


photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured


Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right


mid and anterior temporal region during wakefulness, increasing

during drowsiness.



At times rhythmic and monomorphic for seconds consistent with

temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA).




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Occasional focal sharp waves in the right anterior temporal

region.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Right anterior temporal sharp waves.

2. Right TIRDA.

3. Right mid and anterior temporal focal slow.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings of right anterior temporal sharp waves and TIRDA


indicate the presence of a potentially epileptogenic focus. In

addition there is intermittent focal slowing in the right mid and

anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal

cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.
