HISTORY: 28 y.o. male with a history of reported nonepileptic events and provoked seizures, referred for EEG for management of seizure exacerbation.  MEDICATIONS: UTox +benzodiazepines, PCP, opiates Received benzodiazepines in ER  SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (7/27/2016, 21:18 - 7/28/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND: The waking background is continuous, symmetric, well-organized, and consists predominantly of alpha with admixed excess beta.  Posterior dominant rhythm was present at 10 Hz.  The background is reactive, variable.  There were no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.  Sleep was characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured..  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  None  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 100s  DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is a normal awake and asleep long term video EEG. Excess beta may be seen in the setting of a medication effect. Tachycardia is seen on a single EKG lead. -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 2 (7/28/2016, 06:00 - 7/28/2016, 15:00)  INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: No change  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  SEIZURES/EVENTS:  7/28/2016 at 08:46 - Nonepileptic behavioral event CLINICAL: Patient rouses from sleep, rubs face, then arm w/ R hand. At 08:47 he sits up, pulling on leads (at this point there is lead artifact). He leans forward. He then falls out of the left side of the bed (bedrail is up on right but not on left), hitting his head on the table. His arms are extended. A nurse comes in to stabilize him. He remains in this position until they help him back in bed. As he is helped back in bed his arms are adducted and legs are straight. He adducts left arm across midline with hand pronated. There is intermittent adduction of both legs. Left arm adducts with twitching, right arm has intermittent twitching. He does not respond to questions. Nurse notes eyes are deviated to left, then to right. He develops intermittent twitching of both arms (waxing and waning) 08:50 again - still not responding. Fists clenched, drooling. At 08:51 he begins to relax and breathes deeply. At 08:53 he again stiffens the left arm and pronates it.  The PCA enters the room and he is able to answer simple questions. At 08:55 PCA pushes button again as patient is less responsive.  His head is turned left and he elevates right arm, bringing it over his face.  He writhes in bed, having asynchronous movements, then stiffens and shakes his trunk rapidly, abruptly stopping without slowing down. He remains unresponsive. He then extends his right arm over his head and flexes his neck upward and to the left. He intermittently stiffens his arms and flexes his trunk, sitting up in bed, with intermittent clonic movements and guttural sounds.  Activity like this persists until 09:08. EEG: At 08:49 leads are connected - there is normal awake background, which persists during times of EEG that are not affected by movement artifact. During times of body shaking, there is movement artifact. There is no ictal cerebral correlate. EKG: HR increases up to 140s from baseline 60 -----------------------------------------------------------------  FINAL IMPRESSION:  This is an essentially normal video EEG. A prolonged episode of waxing and waning stiffening and shaking with decreased responsiveness captured 7/28 is a nonepileptic behavioral event.    FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is an essentially normal video EEG. A prolonged episode of waxing and waning stiffening and shaking with decreased responsiveness captured 7/28 is a nonepileptic behavioral event. Excess beta can be seen in the setting of a medication effect. 
