HISTORY:

44 y.o. female with a history of localization related epilepsy s/p R temporal
lobectomy referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures. She was recently in the ER after a
seizure.


MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


haloperidol (HALDOL) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.

benztropine (COGENTIN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth every evening.

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily. 2 tabs BID prn.


loratadine (CLARITIN) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.

calcium carbonate 500 mg calcium (1,250 mg) capsule, Take 1,250 mg by mouth 2 times daily (with
meals).


ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 800 mg tablet, Take 800 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain.

acyclovir (ZOVIRAX) 200 mg capsule, Take  by mouth 5 times daily.


omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 10 mg capsule, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth nightly. 4 caps

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 3 times daily.




multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D-3) 2,000 unit Capsule, Take 2,000 Units by mouth daily.


naproxen (NAPROSYN) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, diffuse
background slowing, and bitemporal delta slowing, at times quasirhythmic, are seen.




Sleep transients are not captured


No generalized slowing is present.


Bitemporal quasirhythmic slowing is seen in drowsiness as described above..


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Abundant (>1/10s) left fronto-temporal (F7/T1 max) spike and wave discharge

2. Very frequent left temporal/posterior temporal and central (T3/T5 max, extending to C3>P3) spike
and wave discharges


3. Occasional right temporal (T4>T2) spike and wave discharges.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.





Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

An electroclinical seizure was captured at 15:11

CLINICAL: patient wipes her face with left hand, then has forced left head and gaze deviation. She is
unresponsive and has left hand automatisms with lip smacking. She does not follow commands.
After offset patient gradually is able to answer her name and follow simple commands.



EEG: There is onset of sharply contoured delta phase reversing over left fronto-temporal region (F7
max). The EEG is then obscured by diffuse muscle artifact; however, there is clearly underlying ictal
activity that evolves best over the left temporal region, manifested as sharply contoured delta activity
with superimposed fast frequencies. Ictal activity evolves into 8 Hz spikes, increasing in amplitude
and spreading diffusely before slowing to rhythmic delta at offset.  Postictally there is attenuation of
faster frequencies over the left hemisphere.





HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 108 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. A left temporal electroclinical seizure


2. Abundant (>1/10s) left fronto-temporal (F7/T1 max) spike and wave discharges

3. Very frequent left temporal/posterior temporal and central (T3/T5 max, extending to C3>P3) spike
and wave discharges


4. Occasional right temporal (T4>T2) spike and wave discharges

5. Bitemporal quasirhythmic slowing in drowsiness




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are diagnostic for localization-related epilepsy of left temporal origin. There is
additional evidence for epileptogenicity over the left fronto-temporal, centrotemporal/posterior
temporal, and right temporal regions, as well as bitemporal dysfunction.




Following this study the patient was taken to the emergency room for further evaluation and
stabilization.
