HISTORY:

66 y.o. male who presents after an episode concerning for a seizure.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


magnesium oxide (MAG-OX) tablet 800 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

aspirin chewable tablet 81 mg


clopidogrel (PLAVIX) tablet 75 mg

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 40 mg

dextrose 50% injection 25 mL


dextrose 50% injection 50 mL

glucagon (human recombinant) (GLUCAGEN) injection 1 mg

insulin regular (HumuLIN R,NovoLIN R) injection 2-10 Units


insulin NPH-insulin regular (NovoLIN 70/30) injection 35 Units








SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The posterior dominant rhythm reaches at best 9 Hz, there is excess diffuse theta activity.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep spindles are captured, they are better visualized over the right.



Continuous polymrophic theta and delta activity is noted over the left temporal region and, to a
lesser degree, over the entire left hemisphere.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:



A heart rate of 60 bpm with occasional premature QRS complexes is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Continuous moderate left temporal focal slowing and, to a lesser degree, left hemispheric slowing

2. Asymmetry of sleep spindles with sleep spindles better visualized over the right.

3. Mild diffuse slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion involving left temporal region.
Additionally, there may be some disruption of thalamocortical pathway on the left.



Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.
