HISTORY:

49 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy, most recent seizure 2 weeks ago and
advanced cerebral and cerebellar atrophy referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


"Aura: flashing light, that's how he knows to lay flat so he does not injure himself

Seizure: semiology unknown to patient. No one has described it to him


Post-Ictal: Post-ictal confusion. Usually wakes up in hospital. Also with post-ictal headache

MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


risperiDONE (RISPERDAL) 4 mg tablet, Take 4 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

NAPROXEN PO, Take 50 mg by mouth.

doxepin (SINEQUAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth at bedtime.


LEVETIRACETAM (KEPPRA PO), Take 100 mg by mouth 3 times daily.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly for 70 doses. Week 1: 25mg in
PM, week 2: 25mg BID, week 3: 25mg in AM, 50mg in PM, week 4: 50mg BID



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8.2 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not sustained


Mild generalized slowing is present.- There is a small amount of background theta and the alpha is
slightly slow


Left temporal focal slowing is present.  This is characterized by occasional bursts of left mid temporal
mixed theta delta noted in hyperventilation and drowsiness.


There are less frequent but present isolated bursts of slowing noted from the right



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

WICKET, sometimes seen around the time of the focal slowing

ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.  The left temporal focal slowing was also noted
around the time of photic stimulation



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a mildly abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.


1. isolated, infrequent left greater than right temporal focal slowing

CLINICAL CORRELATION:

The Features described above are not uncommon in older adults with cerebrovascular disease.  In a
subject of this age, this is a nonspecific finding.  It is however, outside of the accepted range of
normal.  There were no epileptiform discharges. This routine EEG does not support or refute the
diagnosis of epilepsy.
