HISTORY:

63 y.o. female with a history of epilepsy, previously treated with Phenytoin.  Acute
seizure, patient fell and hit her head and back, has bilateral scalp hematomas referred for routine
EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Not provided.

SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:

A bedside Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG auditory stimulation.  The
patient is very uncomfortable. Much of the record includes drowsiness.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a  symmetric mixture of alpha, theta and
beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive  7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The
normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.






During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



Modest generalized slowing is present.

Intermittent bursts of left focal slowing were seen in drowsiness, L posterior temporal max, noted in
the initial portions of the EEG, when there is a lot of muscle artifact. Testing was performed after one
of the events, no impairment was noted.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clear clinical events captured.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84  bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION: This is a challenging but abnormal routine EEG due to:

1.Background slowing and disorganization


2. Two bursts of irregular mixed L mid temporal or posterior temporal delta, without clear clinical
change.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are suggestive of a bihemispheric process.  The bilateral scalp hematomas can
confound EEG patterns but correlation with clinical features and imaging is suggested.
