
HISTORY:

48 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy in the setting of gunshot wound to back of
head (1996); last seizure 1.5 months ago (LOC, postictal) referred for routine EEG for characterization
of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) 100 mg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth once daily

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule,



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with mild excess of delta in wakefulness, with a symmetric and reactive
10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles
and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

There is continuous left posterior quadrant (T5/P3 max) polymorphic slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Rare left posterior quadrant spike-and-wave



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and
produces mild diffuse symmetric background slowing, with accentuation of focal slowing over the left
posterior quadrant.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed
during sleep, does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:




1. Mild generalized slowing

2. Continuous left posterior quadrant (T5/P3 max) polymorphic slowing


3. Rare left posterior quadrant spike-and-wave



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of left posterior quadrant cerebral dysfunction, likely structural
in etiology and with epileptogenic potential, superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
