	



History:	80 YR FEMALE WITH cc OF PALPITATIONS, ABD PAIN, NON SENSE SPEECH PT REMAINS CONFUSED

Medications: Sedation: EEG Type: Technique:
 Depakote, Dilantin

Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, drowsy, asleep, lethargic

Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 23 hours from 12/25/2015 to 12/26/2015. Nursing­ initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the attending neurologist for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.
# Push button events	O Description of pushbutton events

Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions. Diffuse, frontally predominant 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen. Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5- 7Hz activity is present throughout the recording and increases during drowsiness. During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left anterior temporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. Frequent focal spikes are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at F7, T3 and 01.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed. Hr was 96 and irr
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, frequent, left temporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, left temporal, anterior Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, excessive, mild diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of frequent epileptiform discharges and focal slowing in the temporal region. These findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in this region. In addition there is mild diffuse background slowing. This finding is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific. Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.

