DATE OF STUDY: 09/21/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy




HISTORY:

a 30 y.o. female with a history of generalized grand mal seizures beginning at age
19, most recently occurring 2 weeks ago, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

buprenorphine-naloxone (SUBOXONE) 4-1 mg Film, Take 1 Film by mouth 2 times daily.

Levetiracetam


Gabapentin


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:

Wakefulness is characterized by symmetric and reactive to 40-50 uV 10-11 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. A large amount of generalized low
to medium amplitude 18-30 Hz activity was seen, most prominent anteriorly. In addition, prominent
bilateral frontotemporal muscle artifact was seen during much of the study.





During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 58 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.


.






A normal interictal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. If clinically
indicated, a sleep deprived tracing Training stage II sleep or ambulatory EEG may provide
additional helpful information.





































































