HISTORY:

25 y.o. female with a history of isolated seizure on 7/21, referred for routine
EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

ferrous sulfate 325 mg (65 mg iron) tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily (with breakfast) for 180 days.


docusate sodium (COLACE) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily for 180 days.

verapamil (CALAN-SR) 240 mg CR tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly for 360 days.

magnesium oxide (MAG-OX) 400 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 650 mg CR tablet, Take 650 mg by mouth every 4 hours as needed for
Pain.

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.






SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a moderate amount of mildly
disorganized 8-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) indication low amplitude anteriorly
predominant beta activity. EKG and intermittent muscle artifact were noted. Infrequent superimposed
asymmetric focal 2-4 Hz activity was seen over left mid temporal regions.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by increased prominence of irregular low to medium voltage delta and theta
frequencies and symmetric vertex waves. Slow wave sleep was not captured.





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


EKG monitor demonstrated sinus arrhythmia at 50-75 per minute.





IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild diffuse slowing of dominant posterior rhythm during wakefulness.


2. Infrequent focal slowing over left mid temporal region.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are indicative of a mild diffuse disturbance of cerebral activity which is nonspecific
along with more localized intermittent focal functional disturbance in the left temporal region,
without epileptiform spike or sharp wave activity and with no clinical or electrographic seizures
recorded.
