HISTORY: 75 y.o. female with a history of refractory PE, dyspneic and wheelchair bound,  referred for intraoperative monitoring  MEDICATIONS: Current Facility-Administered Medications: metoprolol tartrate (LOPRESSOR) tablet 25 mg sildenafil (REVATIO) tablet 20 mg albuterol (PROVENTIL) nebulizer solution 2.5 mg atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 40 mg pantoprazole (PROTONIX) EC tablet 20 mg meclizine (ANTIVERT) tablet 25 mg gabapentin (NEURONTIN) capsule 300 mg gabapentin (NEURONTIN) capsule 600 mg aspirin chewable tablet 81 mg montelukast (SINGULAIR) tablet 10 mg insulin lispro (HumaLOG) injection 1-5 Units  Facility-Administered Medications Ordered : fentaNYL (PF) (SUBLIMAZE) injection etomidate (AMIDATE) injection rocuronium (ZEMURON) injection EPINEPHrine INJECTION mannitol (OSMITROL) 20 % infusion heparin (5000 units/mL) injection Isofluarne TECHNIQUE: A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG the operative montage  EEG BACKGROUND: The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 7.8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.   Induction of anesthesia: 8:50 AM generalized background slowing is noted Pre-incision baseline- following the induction, the EEG is briefly discontinuous.  Prior to the first incision or any manipulation, there are occasional small sharp waves noted in the background.  Slow paper speed, and asymmetry can be noted intermittently with a bit more slowing from the right hemisphere Incision: 9:39 AM  Bypass: 10:12 AM- EEG is continuous, but the asymmetry persists with a somewhat lower voltage pattern on the right and reduction in faster frequency activity in the right relative to the left Cooling: 10:17 AM- produces initially rhythmic delta and theta, often symmetric, but intermittent right hemispheric asymmetries reemerge intermittently.  Although there is some operative room artifact, the EEG is suppressed at 10:48.  The operative team was informed. Head Temp 14 and then 13 degrees 11:20 Circulatory arrest- 11:20 EEG remains flat.  Circulatory arrest is used intermittently throughout the procedure Rewarming / reperfusion begins at 11:40 7 AM.  The EEG is suppressed at that time EEG starts to return at 12:37.  The EEG is initially discontinuous with shifting asymmetries.  The EEG becomes stable by 2 PM with the theta pattern.  The previously noted asymmetries with lower amplitude activity in the right and slightly pattern persist.   The sharp waves from the left are infrequent. The record ends at 3:10EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Intermittent small spikes are seen after induction, independently from left or  right hemisphere including left frontal region  HEART RATE: A heart rate of 60-100  bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION: This 6.75 hour EEG monitoring during hypothermia was remarkable for the ability to achieve EEG suppression with hypothermia.  Shifting asymmetries were noted after the induction of anesthesia.  Intermittent sharp waves were noted most particularly in the left frontal region both before hypothermia and following rewarming.  These may be correlated with this patient's baseline clinical history and imaging 
