HISTORY:

41 y.o. female with a history of depression, memory impairment, seizure disorder
referred for routine EEG for management of seizure exacerbation, with several seizures occurring on
9/24.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 150 mg tablet, Take 3 tablets by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 3 capsules by mouth at bedtime.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:




A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of fairly generalized poorly organized
medium amplitude 5-6 Hz activity with intermixed irregular delta frequency slowing and
superimposed muscle artifact. Occasional runs of medium to high amplitude irregular delta activity
and anteriorly predominant triphasiform discharges were seen during periods of increased drowsiness.
Occasional sharp-and slow-wave discharges were seen in the right frontotemporal region at T4-F8
and infrequent low amplitude sharp transients were also seen at P3.





Sleep is not captured



No focal slowing is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 62 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 1 hour EEG due to:

1. Diffuse background slowing and disorganization

2. Occasional runs of triphasiform activity during drowsiness.


3. Right frontotemporal sharp-slow wave discharges at T4-F8.

4. Infrequent low amplitude sharp transients in the left parietal region at P3.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:



The diffuse background slowing and triphasic activity are nonspecific and indicates a moderate
bihemispheric functional disturbance such as asking variety of metabolic or other generalized
encephalopathies of various etiologies. Focal interictal sharp activity indicates a potential
epileptogenic region in the right anterior temporal area at T4-F8, with questionable minimal
irritative activity also seen infrequently in the left parietal region at P3.
