HISTORY:

64 y.o. male presented with acute renal

failure and was noted to have altered mental status with tongue


biting, now referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental

status change.



MEDICATIONS: no AEDs noted


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record though affected somewhat by IV drip artifact


(see below), and included a single channel of EKG.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a


symmetric and reactive 8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).

The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.


There is abundant electrode artifact affecting T3, F3, P3 that


correlates with IV drip.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. There is a single left fronto-temporal sharply contoured theta

wave (F7 max), not clearly epileptiform, captured in sleep.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

Note is made of a wide-complex, irregular QRS waveform, with


heart rate ranging from 60 to 126 bpm.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing

2. Wide-complex, irregular QRS waveform, with heart rate ranging


from 60 to 126 bpm

A single left fronto-temporal sharply countoured theta wave is


captured in sleep but is not clearly epileptiform.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of a mild


diffuse cerebral dysfunction.

A heart rate characterized by wide complex, irregular QRS


waveform is captured as described above.
