HISTORY:

33 y.o. female with a history of HCV, endocarditis, R PCA stroke, complicated by
focal epilepsy, referred for routine EEG for management of seizure exacerbation. Patient has been
having 3 seizures per week since 5/2016.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 750 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg

enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:




A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous, reactive, and asymmetric.

The left hemisphere is characterized by a fairly organized mixture of alpha with excess beta, with a
posterior dominant rhythm of 9 Hz.


The right hemisphere is characterized by continuous delta activity with attenuated faster frequencies,
with no clear posterior dominant rhythm.



Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

There is continuous right hemispheric polymorphic slowing. Frequently this slowing becomes right
hemispheric rhythmic delta slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Frequent right hemispheric 1 Hz rhythmic delta slowing for < 10 sec

2. Frequent frontally predominant 1 Hz generalized rhythmic delta slowing for < 10 sec



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:

1. Suboptimal organization

2. Continuous right hemispheric slowing


3. Attenuation of faster frequencies over the right hemisphere




4. Frequent right hemispheric 1 Hz rhythmic delta slowing for < 10 sec

5. Frequent frontally predominant 1 Hz generalized rhythmic delta slowing for < 10 sec





CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of right hemispheric cortical dysfunction and epileptogenic
potential superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.



Frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity (GRDA, also known as FIRDA) is a
nonspecific but pathologic finding that is most commonly seen in toxic-metabolic states, but may
also be seen with deep structural lesions or increased intracranial pressure. Clinical correlation is
advised.
