HISTORY:

54 y.o. female with a history of focal epilepsy vs PNES referred for routine EEG
for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Phenobarbital



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.






During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Continuous left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing is present, occasionally becoming quasi-
rhythmic.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
accentuated focal slowing in the left frontotemporal region




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed in
sleep, does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Continuous left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing, occasionally becoming quasi-rhythmic




CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of left fronto-temporal dysfunction, likely structural in etiology.
Correlation with imaging is suggested.
 
