HISTORY:

31 y.o. female with a history of cardiac

arrest, status post CPR December 20, treated with hyperthermia.


Followup MRI was normal referred for routine EEG for ongoing

encephalopathy.



MEDICATIONS:

Ativan, cerebral, prednisone, thiamine




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and




included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

There is excess of theta noted in wakefulness Wakefulness is

characterized by a symmetric and reactive 7 Hertz posterior


dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye

opening.  During some portions of the record, the posterior


dominant rhythm reached 9 Hz.  Throughout the study,

behaviorally, the patient appeared to be awake with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.  Sleep was not sustained and only


brief drowsiness was seen

No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Was not possible



Photic Stimulation: Did not significantly activate the

record



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal routine EEG.


1. mild excess theta for an adult of this age

2. intermittent slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm


There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or


detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This EEG supports a mild, diffuse disturbance of cervical

function.  The findings  may be seen in a toxic or metabolic

encephalopathy.  Although behaviorally, the patient seems to be


awake throughout the record, the alpha rhythm is intermittently

slow.  This may also support a toxic or metabolic encephalopathy.


Ongoing clinical assessment is suggested.
