HISTORY:

51 y.o. female with a history of bipolar 1 disorder, type B personality disorder,
and depression, now with falls, blurry vision, and headache, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of
paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


LORazepam (ATIVAN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth daily.

mirtazapine (REMERON) 15 mg tablet, Take 15 mg by mouth nightly.



SEDATION: Ativan noted in med list (unclear last dose)


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:

The majority of the study consists of drowsiness and sleep.


During brief periods of wakefulness, fragments of a poorly sustained posterior dominant rhythm
approaching 9 Hz are seen in an anterior to posterior gradient that is present



The patient quickly falls back into a drowsy, then sleep state.

During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed as
the patient progressed into stage II sleep, does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60-66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is awake and asleep routine EEG is remarkable only for a poorly sustained wakeful state.





CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings can be seen in the setting of an excessively drowsy state.


If clinically indicated, a sleep study may be of benefit.
