HISTORY:


a 66 y.o. female with a history of  lung transplant, aneurysm, epilepsy,
change in mental status referred for EEG monitor for assessment of mental status change.   This is
her second EEG monitoring session.  She has had previous EEG monitoring after left hemibody
seizures. clinical symptoms include jerking of the left arm or wrist.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:

aspirin (BAYER) tablet 325 mg


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 40 mg

atovaquone (MEPRON) suspension 750 mg

cycloSPORINE modified (NEORAL) capsule 100 mg


labetalol (NORMODYNE) tablet 100 mg

magnesium chloride (MAG 64) DR tablet 64 mg

pantoprazole (PROTONIX) EC tablet 20 mg


predniSONE (DELTASONE) tablet 10 mg


valGANciclovir (VALCYTE) tablet 450 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg


heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units

mycophenolate (CELLCEPT) capsule 500 mg

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 1,000 mg




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A bedside, 24-hour 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International
10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and  stimulation.





DAY 1 (8/22/2016 - 8/23/2016, 11:00)



BACKGROUND:

The waking background is markedly abnormal.  From the left hemisphere there is a medium
amplitude primarily theta frequency pattern with smaller amounts of alpha and delta.  The right
hemisphere demonstrates arrhythmic delta, sharply contoured slowing and marked disruption of faster
frequency activity.   Posterior dominant rhythm was not present initially, but later there is one on the
left- 7Hz.  Wakefulness is characterized by an increase in theta noted in both hemispheres





The background is  reactive,  variable.


There were persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.



Sleep was characterized by an increase in slowing with more a arrhythmic delta on the right and
sharply contoured slowing from the right central temporal region



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


Sharply contoured activity, Right Centrotemporal


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Broadly contoured T4 sharp waves




EVENTS: As noted in the video, the patient has intermittent twitching of the left hand.  It is stimulus
sensitive.  More prolonged jerking of the left wrist is noted after the left arm is manipulated.  There is
no clear clinical correlate for this activity.  Although there are sections of the record with prolonged
right hemispheric sharply contoured delta, the jerking can be seen during portions of the record with
there is less in the way of focal slowing





EKG: A single lead captured HR 72 BPM



DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to:

1.  Continuous focal slowing from the right hemisphere with sharply contoured arrhythmic delta


2.  Intermittent bursts of sharply contoured slowing on the right with broad field of spread

3. Moderate slowing on the left.

4.  This clinical pattern, in association with these EEG findings is most compatible with epilepsy
partialis continua

