HISTORY:

39 y.o. female with a history of absence

and TC seizures referred for routine EEG for characterization of


seizures.  Recent Pedestrian vs MVA with scalp sutures 01/10/2016


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

DIVALPROEX SODIUM (DEPAKOTE PO), Take  by mouth.

HINGED KNEE SLEEVE, 1 each by Other route See Admin Instructions.


As directed

CARBAMAZEPINE (TEGRETOL PO), Take 200 mg by mouth. She takes 2

200mg tabs in the am and 2 200mg tabs in the evening


IBUPROFEN PO, Take  by mouth as needed.

carbamazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 200 mg 12 hr tablet, Take 2 tablets

by mouth every 12 hours.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

The overall  Background is somewhat disorganized. Wakefulness is


characterized by a symmetric and reactive 7-8 Hertz posterior

dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye


opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.  Bursts of frontal delta were noted.




Sleep is not sustained


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent bursts of high amplitude frontally predominant 2.8-3.5

Hz notched delta were noted. The first burst does not have a

clear spike, but consistently, the second burst does. Most bursts

are 4 seconds in duration, with slight frequency evolution.


Isolated bursts are noted as well



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Bursts frontal delta



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: clearly accentuates the notched frontal


delta. Discharges were of longer duration as well.


Photic Stimulation: subtle driving and questionable

accentuation of above bursts.


Auditory stimulation of the patient during the frequent

spells was consistently performed at the end of the 4 second


spells.  However, it may have served to end the discharges.

Counting tasks seemed to halt the discharges


EVENTS:


These events may have had some impairment in awareness, not

clearly delineated by above testing.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal routine EEG.


1. Atypical and somewhat slow spike and wave activity

2. Mild background slowing and disorganization

3. Questionable- subtle clinical seizure.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is similar to the 2012 EEG and is more suggestive of a


secondary generalized than primary generalized epilepsy.
