DATE OF STUDY: 01/19/17

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep



HISTORY:

 a 44 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy, seizure free,  referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 400 mg 12 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

Calcium Carbonate-Vitamin D3 600 mg(1,500mg) -400 unit Tablet, Chewable, Take 1 capsule by
mouth 2 times daily.


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:








The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  In maximal
wakefulness, there is scant background theta



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  There is a prominent increase in diffuse
theta noted.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with rare synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles . Slow wave sleep was not captured.


Scant generalized slowing is present.

No sustained focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: There are bursts of rhythmic paroxysmal theta.  Some of this is rhythmic
and some of this is slightly arrhythmic.  In these bursts, there are right frontal 4 Hz sharp and slow
wave discharges.  Sometimes, there is some irregular slowing in the left temporal region with a right
frontal spike and wave complex.  All bursts are less than 3 seconds duration and tend to occur in
hyperventilation or drowsiness





OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation:produces prominent theta and the discharges described above.

Photic Stimulation: Elicited symmetric driving



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1.  Paroxysmal theta outside of the range of normal noted in wakefulness

2. Right frontal spike discharges seen in the context of theta bursts and left temporal focal slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are similar to previous studies.  There are bihemispheric
features noted.  This Epileptiform activity may be correlated with imaging given history of prior to
medical brain injury.





