HISTORY:

45 y.o. female with a history of neuropathic

pain, thyroid disease and new onset falls,  referred for routine


EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily.


levothyroxine (SYNTHROID) 50 mcg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth

daily.

calcium carbonate (TUMS) 200 mg calcium (500 mg) chewable tablet,


Take 1,000 mg by mouth daily.

multivitamin capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

DULoxetine (CYMBALTA) 30 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth


daily.





No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and


photic stimulation. The patient was very tense.


EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

20 uV posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening. There is prominent frontal and

diffuse beta.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse beta

are seen.


Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: elicits a small amount of theta



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead. Regular.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no


clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.



The prominent beta and muscle artifact can be seen in a tense or

anxious patient.
