HISTORY:

39 y.o. male with a history of increasing

atonic seizures, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, admitted on 10/05


referred for routine Video EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


LORazepam (ATIVAN) 2 mg tablet

•  rufinamide (BANZEL) 400 mg tablet  2 tablets TID 8 AM, 4 PM

and 8 PM


•  lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 100 mg tablet  Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily. Take 1 tablet at 8am and 1 tablet at 8pm

•  zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule  1 in AM and 2 in PM


•  clobazam 20 mg Tablet  Take 20 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

•  QUEtiapine (SEROQUEL) 200 mg tablet  Take 1 tablet by mouth

nightly.


•  QUEtiapine (SEROQUEL) 300 mg tablet  Take 1 tablet by mouth 2




times daily. 8am and 8pm

•  folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet  Take 1 tablet by mouth


daily.

•  busPIRone (BUSPAR) 15 mg tablet  Take 1 tablet by mouth 2


times daily.


SEDATION: None reported by the technologist



TECHNIQUE:

Continuous Video Digital 21(EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and

utilized a NicOne system.  Seizure and spike detection software

was utilized.  EMU staff was available for EEG and clinical

monitoring of events. This was a technically satisfactory record


and included a single channel of EKG.

-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 1 (October , 11:00 - 10/05/2015,17:00)


BACKGROUND: Wakefulness: the background is characterized by a low

amplitude theta pattern without definitive posterior dominant


Rhythm.



GENERALIZED SLOWING: Present


FOCAL SLOWING: Not signficant



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): following seizures, there

is an increase in paroxysmal slowing of the background which


contrasts to the awake, lower voltage pattern.


SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s)

1. Slow spike and wave activity which may be bilateral or focal


2. Occ trains of R temporal or R hemisphere sharps

3. Polys spike and GPFA activity





EVENTS: Three clinical seizures were recorded. Three PB were

performed as part of the protocol/practice PB for shift change,


and one PB for behavioral event were captured.



1. Seizure: 11:53 AM

EEG: frontally predominate slow spike and wave

Behavior: stares a bit, looks left but moves hands, no clear

clinical signs at first, but does not respond to the nurse when


she speaks to him

Duration: 70 seconds


Patient has no post ictal slowing after this discharge, nor does

he appear confused.


2. Seizure14:09 PM


EEG: patient is eating, which produces chew artifact, but seizure

starts with  slow spike and wave, follow by low voltage beta buzz


and evolution to alpha then theta

Behavior:head drops when the beta buzz occurs. Patient is

somnolent afterwards

Duration: 26 seconds.



3.  Seizure 3:42 PM


EEG: patient is sitting, looking left while blood is drawn.

Seizure

starts with  slow spike and wave, follow by  3 seconds low

voltage beta buzz


and evolution to alpha discharge  then theta frequency.

Behavior:  At 3:42: 22 with the beta buzz has facial movement and


head bob, then right arm drops and he has facial twitching with

left eye deviation.   Patient is somnolent afterwards

Duration: 39 seconds.



4. Post ictal state, poor responsiveness 14:33

EEG: Slow spike and wave, not evolving.


Behavior: Looks about but is slower than usual.  Not following

complex commands.



5. Post ictal state, poor responsiveness 14:41


EEG: Slow spike and wave, not evolving.

Behavior: Looks about but is slower than usual.  Not following


all complex commands.  Looks about to commands.


6. Behavioral event: 14:50

Behavior: Pt is able to hold the right arm up but then Pt doesn't


answer when the nurse calls out his name, then nurse presses the

button. Pt later looks around the room. He is awake and knows


where he is. He continue to answer nurses' question.


7. 15:53: practice push button

8: 4:37- patient unplugged to go to bathroom.  EEG resumes 2


minutes later. Patient does not seem to be impaired at this time.



EKG: A single EKG lead captured HR 96 BPM



DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION



This abbreviated Continuous Video EEG monitoring session captured


two seizure types. The first was a slow spike and wave pattern

with limited behavioral changes and no post ictal confusion. The

seizure with head drop had similar ictal onset, but 2-3 seconds

of fast activity and more marked spike and wave activity as well


as post ictal confusion.



The post ictal pattern improved on its own during the study,

without intervention.


This EEG is diagnostic of a generalized epilepsy disorder and has


features typical of the Lennox Gastaut syndrome.
