HISTORY: 30 y.o. right handed female with a history of medically refractory epilepsy referred for Wada evaluation for language and memory lateralization.  MEDICATIONS: Carbamazepine  SEDATION: as detailed below  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.  ANGIOGRAM: Please see separate final report. In brief: Left carotid injection: No cross filling of the anterior cerebral artery.  No filling of the posterior cerebral artery.  Right carotid injection: No cross filling of the anterior cerebral artery.  No filling of the posterior cerebral artery.   BASELINE BACKGROUND: The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.   A brief period of drowsiness is characterized by attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse background slowing.  Sleep is not captured.  No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.   EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: No epileptiform activity is present.  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  HEART RATE: A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.   LEFT SIDED INJECTION (RIGHT HEMISPHERE ASSESSMENT): The left side is injected first with 125 mg of amobarbital at 08:31. Within seconds, there is subtle theta-delta slowing seen over the left hemisphere. The slowing gradually becomes higher amplitude. The background becomes obscured by diffuse muscle artifact as the patient tremors, though through the artifact less pronounced slowing is seen over the right hemisphere.  The patient demonstrated a transient right hemiparesis and aphasia.  The left hemisphere background returns to baseline at 08:39 and the neuropsychologist is informed of the change. Right memory score: 5/9 (please refer to separate neuropsychology report for full details)  RIGHT SIDED INJECTION (LEFT HEMISPHERE ASSESSMENT): The right side is injected second with 125 mg of amobarbital at 09:11. Within seconds, there is subtle theta-delta slowing seen over the right hemisphere.  The slowing gradually becomes higher amplitude.  No clear change in background is seen on the left side.   The patient demonstrated a transient left hemiparesis and dysarthria with neglect.  The right hemisphere background returns to baseline at 09:19 and the neuropsychologist is informed of the change. Memory score: 5/9 (please refer to separate neuropsychology report for full details)  IMPRESSION: This is a 90-minute EEG performed during a Wada procedure. No seizures captured. Expected EEG changes were produced with each hemispheric injection. Additionally, there was some subtle slowing seen over the right hemisphere during the left hemisphere injection. The background returned to its baseline prior to formal re-testing of the patient. A separate angiogram report and neuropsychology report will be available for more detailed findings regarding angiography and neuropsychology testing, respectively.  
