HISTORY: 59 y.o. female with a history of alcohol abuse, fall, and L SDH s/p evacuation referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change - waxing and waning mental status for >15 days.  MEDICATIONS: Current Facility-Administered Medications: valproic acid (as sodium salt) (DEPAKENE) solution 500 mg famotidine (PEPCID) 40 mg/5 mL (8 mg/mL) suspension 20 mg LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 1 mg thiamine (B-1) 100 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB senna (SENOKOT) tablet 2 tablet ascorbic acid (vitamin C) tablet 500 mg acetaminophen (TYLENOL) oral solution 650 mg potassium chloride (KAYCIEL) 20 mEq/15 mL solution 40 mEq traZODone (DESYREL) tablet 150 mg multivitamin liquid 5 mL levothyroxine (SYNTHROID, LEVOTHROID) injection 12.5 mcg bisacodyl (DULCOLAX) suppository 10 mg ondansetron (PF) (ZOFRAN) injection 4 mg alum-mag hydroxide-simeth (MYLANTA;MAALOX) 200-200-20 mg/5 mL suspension 30 mL   SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (10/31/2016, 17:12 - 11/1/2016, 15:26)  EEG BACKGROUND: The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of alpha, beta, and theta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but suboptimal.   During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.   Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Occasionally spindles are more pronounced over the left hemisphere. Slow wave sleep was not captured.  Mild-moderate generalized slowing is present.   Occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing is present.   EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: 1. Rare <5 sec runs of 2.5 Hz generalized rhythmic delta activity (GRDA, also known as FIRDA - frontally predominant rhythmic delta activity)  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None   ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  HEART RATE: A heart rate in the 90s-100s is captured on a single EKG lead.   FINAL IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to: 1. Mild-moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization 2. Occasional prominence of faster frequencies over the left hemisphere, which may represent breach rhythm in this patient with history of left craniotomy 3. Occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing 4. Rare very brief runs of generalized rhythmic delta activity  FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings indicate the presence of left temporal dysfunction superimposed on a mild-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  A left hemispheric breach rhythm is consistent with this patient's known prior history of craniotomy.  Generalized rhythmic delta activity (GRDA, also known as FIRDA) is a nonspecific but pathologic finding that is most commonly seen in toxic-metabolic states, but may also be seen with deep structural lesions or increased intracranial pressure. Clinical correlation is advised. 
