HISTORY:

Female is a 115 y.o. female with a history of

localization related epilepsy in the setting of L ICH (related to


L MCA aneurysm, s/p L frontal craniotomy [no bone flap]) referred

for routine EEG for management of seizure exacerbation.



MEDICATIONS: Keppra, VPA, Gabapentin at home; pt reportedly

vomited meds this morning and had seizures afterwards



SEDATION: given ativan 2 mg during study


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically difficult study owing to


patient's mental status (uncooperative, combative), and included




a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The record opens to a seizure (see below).



Interictally, the background is continuous but consists of

disorganized delta with suppression of faster frequencies.

There is no posterior dominant rhythm.


Sleep transients are not captured.



Moderate to severe generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


See below under



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.



EVENTS:

Multiple electrographic seizures are captured, lasting 10-30

seconds, occurring 1-2x/minute throughout the study.

CLINICAL: The patient remains agitated and encephalopathic


throughout the study

EEG: Begin with left frontal (F3 max > Fp1, F7, Fz) rhythmic slow


spike and wave (1-2 Hz) with superimposed sharply contoured fast

frequencies. These develop into sharply contoured beta that

subsequently slow to rhythmic slow spike and wave again.



HEART RATE:

EKG lead is affected by movement artifact throughout the study



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Moderate to severe generalized slowing and disorganization


2. Ongoing electrographic seizures of left frontal origin



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are diagnostic for ongoing focal status

epilepticus of left frontal origin.

Additionally, there is evidence for moderate to severe diffuse


cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.



Of note, while a breach rhythm could be expected in the left

frontal region given the patient's clinical history, the

paroxysmal, evolving nature of the left frontal rhythms described

above is most consistent with seizure activity.
