HISTORY:

a 69 y.o. male with a history of  renal failure, long history of epilepsy, status post
EEG monitoring last week.  Now with declining mental status.  Referred for routine EEG for screening
for subclinical seizures, MSE changes




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


amoxicillin (AMOXIL) 875 mg tablet,

insulin aspart (NOVOLOG) 100 unit/mL injection, Inject  into the skin 3 times daily (before meals).

insulin detemir (LEVEMIR) 100 unit/mL injection, Inject  into the skin nightly.


isosorbide mononitrate (IMDUR) 60 mg 24 hr tablet,

hydralazine (APRESOLINE) 25 mg tablet, 75 mg 3 times daily.

furosemide (LASIX) 20 mg tablet,


potassium chloride (KLOR-CON) 20 mEq packet, Take 20 mEq by mouth 2 times daily.

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.




gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 2 times daily. 2 caps by mouth
BID.
multivitamin capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.


famotidine (PEPCID) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily.


clopidogrel (PLAVIX) 75 mg tablet, Take 75 mg by mouth daily.

tamsulosin (FLOMAX) 0.4 mg 24 hr capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily. (Patient taking
differently: Take 0.4 mg by mouth nightly.)



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



Insulin, Hydralazine, Heparin, Famotidine, Plavix, ASA, Atrovastatin, Theragran, Depacon Valproate,
Isordil,

SEDATION:  Ativan 4mg at 11:28/11:41 6/23



TECHNIQUE:

A STAT bedside Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The  patient is somnolent throughout the study.  The background is characterized by the presence of
a low-voltage, mixed theta delta pattern with generous, diffuse beta.  Rhythmic theta is noted in the
temporal regions, left greater than right



Marked  generalized slowing is present.

Left temporal focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Rare, sharply contoured slowing and occasional left temporal sharp waves were noted maximum T3.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: The team tries to console the patient.  When agitated, there is more of
a low-voltage beta pattern

EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:




A heart rate of  78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG due to:


1. low-voltage, diffusely slow pattern

2. prominent theta noted in the temporal regions, sometimes more rhythmic on the left

3. infrequent left temporal sharp waves or sharply contoured slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are similar to the previous EEGs of June 17, 2016.  No seizures were recorded in this
EEG.  The overall background may be somewhat lower voltage and slower in comparison to previous
studies




Attending Epileptologist: 


I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.















































