HISTORY: 74 y.o. MALE WITH PMHX OF PONTINE CVA, HYPERGLYCEMIC 400.  WITH SEIZURES.  MEDICATIONS: Keppra Dilantin  SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record but there was a frequent T5 electrode artifact during the last hours of the record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (02/09/2016 at 4:00PM - 02/10/2016, 09:26AM)  BACKGROUND: The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well-organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.   During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.   Sleep is not captured  Frequent left anterior temporal polymorphic delta was seen.  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Rare F7/T3 sharp waves in sleep  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  EVENTS: There are 2  seizures captured at the beginning of this study.   02/09/2016 04:34 PM  EEG: Sudden rhythmic F7/T3- 1-2Hz discharge that increases in frequency and amplitude as it spreads thought the hemisphere and to the right frontal region. It continues to evolve decreasing in frequency and increasing in amplitude as it slows down and it then stops. HR does not change during the seizure. Seizure lasts 1min 42 seconds Clinical: The patient stares and moves around but is not tested.   02/09/2016 05:02 PM  EEG: Sudden rhythmic F7/T3 (less clear onset due to electrode artifact)- 1-2Hz discharge that increases in frequency and amplitude as it spreads thought the hemisphere and to the right frontal region. It continues to evolve decreasing in frequency and increasing in amplitude as it slows down and it then stops. HR does not change during the seizure. Seizure lasts 1min 54 seconds Clinical: The patient stares, moans and moves around but is not tested.  HEART RATE: A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  DAY 1 IMPRESSION  IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 15 hr LTM EEG due to: 1. Two left anterior temporal seizures. 2. Frequent left anterior temporal focal slow and rare sharp waves in sleep  CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are consistent with localization related epilepsy arising from the left anterior temporal region. In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left anterior temporal region, which is non -specific with regards to etiology.     
