HISTORY:

62 y.o. male with a history of nocturnal movements.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


DULoxetine (CYMBALTA) 60 mg capsule, Take 60 mg by mouth daily.

clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) 0.5 mg tablet, Take 0.5 mg by mouth nightly.

ferrous sulfate 325 mg (65 mg iron) tablet, Take 325 mg by mouth daily (with breakfast).


CYANOCOBALAMIN, VITAMIN B-12, (VITAMIN B-12 IJ), Inject  as directed.

multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
systemwith T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKGand photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




Diffuse excess beta activity is captured.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 59 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.


No epileptiform discharges are present, but stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If clinically indicated,
repeat EEG with sleep recording may provide additional information.



Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.
