HISTORY:

48 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy, poorly controlled seizures,
advanced cerebral and cerebellar atrophy, L  Parietal defect referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Keppra

SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present. Intermittent
generalized slowing is seen in wakefulness.






During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is not captured


Generalized slowing is present.


Focal slowing is present. This includes shifting irregular delta, R>L, sometimes sharply contoured on
R, accentuated by HV and drowsiness



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) sharply contoured slowing, primarily R temporal



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: elicits bitemporal slowing.



Photic Stimulation: scant driving.



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of  66  bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Shifting irregular temporal slowing with amplitude accentuation on the right at times sharply
contoured


2. Intermittent generalized slowing.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings may be correlated with imaging and overall clinical picture. Sharp waves and spikes
were not seen.
