HISTORY:

43 y.o. female with a history of epilepsy in

setting of likely early developmental brain syndrome, deafness,


and some cognitive limitations referred for routine EEG for

characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 200 mg 12 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by


mouth 2 times daily.

famotidine (PEPCID) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 300 mg by mouth


nightly.

lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 5 mg tablet,

GILDESS FE 1 mg-20 mcg (21)/75 mg (7) per tablet,


verapamil (CALAN-SR) 180 mg CR tablet, Take 180 mg by mouth




nightly.

ergocalciferol, Vitamin D2, (VITAMIN D) 50,000 unit Capsule, Take


50,000 Units by mouth every 7 days.

verapamil (COVERA HS) 180 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 180 mg by mouth


nightly.

levothyroxine (SYNTHROID, LEVOTHROID) 25 mcg tablet, Take 25 mcg

by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically


with eye opening. There are occasional <1 sec periods of diffuse

polymorphic theta activity which are most consistent by


appearance with glossokinetic artifact.  Occasionally the left

temporal chain is obscured by muscle artifact.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.

If clinically warranted, a recording with sleep may be helpful.
