DATE OF STUDY: 05/20/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy





HISTORY:

a 66 y.o. male with a history of stroke, imaging demonstrating chronic ischemic
cervical vascular disease but no acute stroke, subsequently developing recurrent seizures with
multiple adverse reactions to seizure medications referred for routine EEG for characterization of
seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 500 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily.

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.

citalopram (CELEXA) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


thiamine 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

cyanocobalamin (CYANOCOBALAMIN) 1,000 mcg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

aspirin (BAYER) 325 mg Tablet tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


terazosin (HYTRIN) 5 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth nightly. Total of 6mg nightly.

DME Unspecified Misc, Scrotal support Use as directed

senna-docusate (PERICOLACE) 8.6-50 mg per tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth daily as needed for
Constipation.




No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  This is a low voltage background with scant alpha activity





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  There are occasional bursts of left mid
temporal isolated theta or delta and drowsiness



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.   Focal slowing is present.  As described above.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation:



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.






EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 55 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is a mildly abnormal routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or
detected.


1.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

The temporal slowing described above is not uncommon in older adults with ischemic
cerebrovascular disease.  It is slightly outside of the accepted amount for a normal adult of this age.


No epileptiform features were seen

This routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.



In this individual with refractory seizures and multiple medication intolerances, consideration for
either outpatient ambulatory EEG or inpatient EEG monitoring may be of value




































