HISTORY:

80 y.o. female with a history of a recent right MCA stroke, now presents with change
in mental status.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Facility-Administered Medications:

aspirin (BAYER) tablet 325 mg

docusate sodium (COLACE) liquid 100 mg


pravastatin (PRAVACHOL) tablet 40 mg

heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units

insulin regular (HumuLIN R,NovoLIN R) injection 1-5 Units


sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion

pantoprazole (PROTONIX) injection 40 mg

magnesium hydroxide (MILK OF MAGNESIA) suspension 30 mL


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg

Or



acetaminophen (TYLENOL) suppository 650 mg

alteplase (ACTIVASE) 6.6 mg in sterile water 6.6 mL infusion


Followed by

alteplase (ACTIVASE) 59 mg in sterile water 59 mL infusion


dextrose 50% injection 25 mL

dextrose 50% injection 50 mL

glucagon (human recombinant) (GLUCAGEN) injection 1 mg

phenylephrine (NEO-SYNEPHRINE) 80 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 250 mL infusion


sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.



With maximal stimulation, the background over the left consists of 7 Hz polymorphic moderate
amplitude theta activity, polymorphic theta and delta activity and poor AP (anterior-to-posterior)
gradient.  The background over the right, consists of low amplitude polymorphic 6 Hz theta activity, a
mixture of theta and delta activity with absence of the expected AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient.
Delta activity is especially pronounced over the right frontotemporal leads.




Diffuse triphasic waveforms are occasionally seen.




No normal sleep is observed but periods of quiescence are captured.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):



None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal comatose routine EEG due to:

1. Moderate diffuse slowing

2.  Focal right hemispheric slowing that is especially pronounced over the right frontotemporal region.


3. occasional triphasic waveforms


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.


Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion in over the right and is consistent
with a recent right MCA stroke.



Triphasic waves are a nonspecific EEG finding that can be seen in encephalopathy (mostly
commonly hepatic), uremia, anoxia and many other etiologies.
