HISTORY: 39 y.o. male with a history of oligodendroglioma and seizures.    MEDICATIONS: Current Outpatient Prescriptions: levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. Brand name only, has side effects to generic version guaifenesin (MUCINEX) 600 mg Tablet Extended Release 12hr, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. fluticasone (FLONASE) 50 mcg/actuation nasal spray, Inhale 2 sprays into the nose daily. meloxicam (MOBIC) 7.5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. cetirizine (ZYRTEC) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. sodium chloride (OCEAN) 0.65 % nasal spray, Inhale 1 spray into the nose as needed for Congestion. ARTIFICIAL TEAR, HYPROMELLOSE, OP, Apply  to eye.  No current facility-administered medications for this visit.    SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.  EEG BACKGROUND: The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well-organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10.5-11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.   During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.   Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.   Higher voltages, intermittent polymorphic theta activity and intermittent under riding fast activity are present over the left posterior quadrant/ posterior temporal region.  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:        Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is attempted but stopped after ~1 minute due to patient's persistent cough.       Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional abnormalities.   EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  HEART RATE: A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal drowsy and asleep 1-hour routine EEG due to: 1. left posterior quadrant/ posterior temporal region mild focal slowing.  CLINICAL CORRELATION: This finding is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region.  Breach effect is secondary to the skull defect.  The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.    
