HISTORY:

57 y.o. female with a history of cirrhosis,

referred for routine EEG for jerking of the face, arms, and legs.



MEDICATIONS: ATIVAN, VERSED, PHENYLEPHRINE, VASOPRESSIN



SEDATION: as above


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG.


EEG BACKGROUND, EVENTS, and EKG:


The background is continuous, symmetric, and consists of




disorganized delta and frequencies. There is no posterior

dominant rhythm and no clear reactivity or variability or state


change.

There is moderate to severe diffuse slowing. There is no focal


slowing.


When the record opens, there is continuous muscle artifact and

continuous irregular twitch artifact in the bilateral anterior


quadrant leads (Fp1, F7, T1, T3, Fp2, F8, T4, F3, C3, F4, C4).



At 11:11, the tech notes a left eye twitch. This is not well seen

on video review at first; however, head bobbing with neck

flexion, synchronous with delivered ventilator breaths, is seen.

As the record progresses, a subtle left eye twitch is appreciable


on video.

There is no clear EEG cerebral correlate.  However, twitch


artifact over the left anterior quadrant leads increases in

amplitude.


At 11:15, the heart rate increases from a baseline of 132 to 228


bpm.

On video, subtle left eye twitching and head bobbing, the latter


synchronous with the vent, continue to be noted.

Again, there is no clear EEG cerebral correlate.  However, twitch

artifact and muscle artifact, of higher amplitude than before and

somewhat higher in amplitude over the left anterior quadrant,


limit the interpretation of cerebral activity, especially in the

bilateral anterior quadrants.



At 11:18, the patient is given a cardiac shock. EEG leads show

suppressed activity (likely an artifact of the shock) for 4

seconds; then the background activity with twitch artifact


resumes as before. Heart rate is 124 bpm. Left eye twitching

continues to be noted by tech, and at this point diffuse high


amplitude twitch artifact is noted on the record. Underlying

cerebral activity is obscured. Heart rate is 138 bpm.



By 11:25, twitch artifact has mostly abated. There is no


underlying seizure activity on EEG at this time.  Background

activity remains symmetric, with disorganized delta and theta


frequencies.


At 11:28, vecuronium is administered. Twitch artifact completely

resolves. There is no underlying seizure activity on EEG at this


time.  Background activity remains symmetric, with disorganized

delta and theta frequencies.



By 11:34, low amplitude twitch artifact resumes over the left

anterior quadrant leads. Tech notes mild left eye twitching. This

is not clearly appreciable on video review.



By 11:40, twitch artifact spreads diffusely. No obvious twitch is


noted on video review.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None clearly present



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.


IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal asleep only routine EEG due to:


1. Moderate to severe diffuse slowing and disorganization of

background


2. Eye twitching without definite EEG cerebral correlate

3. Tachycardia


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of moderate to severe

diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


Eye twitching has no definite EEG cerebral correlate. A surface

negative seizure cannot entirely be excluded.


Tachycardia as high as 228 bpm is noted on a single EKG lead; the

heart rate decreases following cardiac shock.

