HISTORY:

67 y.o. male with a history of ventricular

shunt and seizures who presented with status epilepticus and


sepsis, referred for routine EEG for assessment for status

epilepticus.



MEDICATIONS: maxipime, Keppra, s/p Ativan 6 mg


SEDATION: as above



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The record opens to a background consisting of disorganized


alpha, theta, and beta.  There is no posterior dominant rhythm or

organization of the background into a wakeful state despite


noxious stimulation by the technician, but the background

demonstrates reactivity as faster rhythms briefly appear during

the drowsy state. Sleep transients are not seen.



Occasionally there is attenuation of faster frequencies over the

right hemisphere.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

There is no definite epileptiform activity



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

At the study start, there are sharply contoured beta waves over


the right posterior quadrant (P4>C4/T6), occurring every second,

superimposed on quasi-rhythmic delta waves. When these discharges

are noted to occur, the patient is positioned such that he rests

on the back of the right side of his head. Later on in the study


he repositions and this EEG activity resolves.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 114 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal drowsy and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Lack of wakeful state despite noxious stimulation

2. Suboptimal organization


3. Occasional attenuation of faster frequencies over the right

hemisphere


4. Tachycardia

5. Sharply contoured beta waves as noted above, correlating with


head positioning and breathing


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of right hemisphere


dysfunction superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.

Tachycardia is captured.


The sharply contoured beta waves noted above are seen only during

times when the patient is positioned such that he lies on the

right side of his head; however, epileptiform discharges cannot

be completely ruled out. If clinically warranted, a repeat study


may be obtained for clarification.

There are no clinical or electrographic seizures captured during


this study.
