HISTORY:

36 y.o. female with a history of localization related epilepsy referred for routine
EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

ferrous sulfate 325 mg (65 mg iron) tablet, TAKE 1 TABLET TWICE A DAY

Hydrocodone-Acetaminophen 5-300 mg Tablet


Lamictal 200mg BID?

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.

SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Brief stage II sleep is captured. Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous
and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes, and POSTS. Slow wave sleep was not
captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding. Patient Falls asleep briefly during photic
stimulation.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72-78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.





CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG which is consistent with her previously normal EEGs
which include two routine studies and one EMU.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
