HISTORY:

32 y.o. male with a history of seizures referred for routine EEG for evaluation of
paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D-3) 2,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9-10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present. At times there
is a slow alpha variant seen at 4-5 Hz.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured. Rare POSTs are seen.



No generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Rare (<1hour) there are rare left temporal and right temporal independent sharp waves. The right
sharps are maximal at T4 and the left sharps at T3.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Sharpy contoured activity of unknown significance is also seen.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 70-80 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.





IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Independent left temporal and right temporal sharp waves.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of epileptiform waveforms are frequently found in association
with localization related epilepsy.
