HISTORY:

34 y.o. male with a history of complex


partial and tonic-clonic seizures.  Characteristics include: Deja

vu, +/- indescribable smell --> Would black out. Would awaken 30

min later with bad headache. Would not remember


anything.Frequency: reduced on Keppra - now once every 2 months

up to 2 in 2 wks.  Currently experiencing suicidal ideation.

Referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) 1 mg tablet, Take 2 mg by mouth 2 times

daily as needed.

levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1,000 mg by mouth 2


times daily.




sertraline (ZOLOFT) 50 mg tablet,

METHADONE HCL (METHADONE PO), Take 160 mg by mouth.


lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 25 mg tablet, Wk 1-2: Take 25 mg in AM. Wk

3-4: Take 50 mg in AM. Week 5: 50 mg in AM, 25 mg in PM.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is nearly symmetric, reactive, and consists

of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.  There is subtle, underlying slowing note in


the left temporal region noted in wakefulness.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.

Left temporal focal slowing is seen in drowsiness.




Very limited stage II sleep Sleep is characterized by normal

sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,


sleep spindles.  Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Elicits a small amount of background theta

and may accentuate the left temporal focal features



Photic Stimulation: Was performed while the patient was

drifting off to sleep.  Despite this there is a driving response

which is slightly better developed on the right



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 48 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG.

1. focal slowing noted in the left hemisphere, maximum in the

temporal regions

2. bradycardia


There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or

detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

No epileptiform features were identified.  This record may be

correlated with previous studies.  It supports a structural or


functional process in the left hemisphere.  Although no

epileptiform features were seen, this kind of focal slowing can


be seen in epilepsy or other structural or functional or

physiological disturbance.

