HISTORY:

80 y.o. female with a history of multiple CVAs, gout,  referred for routine EEG for
assessment of mental status change.



MEDICATIONS:

Gabapentin, lisinopril, others.



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation. Patient is very drowsy with
snore arousals. Sweat artifact was seen.





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz  30 uV posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.






During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  FIRDA is seen in the transition to sleep.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.  Snore arousals present.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

FIRDA, drowsy only.

ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.





EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 70 bpm  IREG is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG for a subject of this age. There are no clinical or
electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal routine EEG. Snore arousals are normal findings. FIRDA in transition to sleep is WNL
for a subject of this age.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
