HISTORY:

68 y.o. male with a history of episodic weakness and speech difficulty on
awakening from sleep, referred for routine EEG for evaluation for possible seizure disorder.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

meloxicam (MOBIC) 7.5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 400 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3 times daily for 360 days.


VENTOLIN HFA 90 mcg/actuation inhaler,

baclofen (LIORESAL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.

AMLODIPINE BESYLATE (AMLODIPINE PO), Take 10 mg by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None




TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of low voltage 9 Hz alpha
and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior
gradient.  Alpha activity attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. A moderate amount of muscle
artifact is seen.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.





IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
