DATE OF STUDY: 06/28/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy




HISTORY:

a 34 y.o. male with a history of localization related epilepsy secondary to severe
traumatic brain injury involving bilateral frontal/temporal injury s/p bilateral craniectomy and
ventriculostomy now removed with cranioplasty after being assaulted on , referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours.

lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 25 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth every 12 hours for 360 days.


tadalafil (CIALIS) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth as needed for Erectile Dysfunction. Do not
take more than 1 tablet in a 72 hour period



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized mixture of alpha and
beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9.5-10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The
normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.


There is continuous left temporal polymorphic delta slowing.


Very frequent eye blink artifact makes interpretation of frontal cerebral rhythms suboptimal.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional left temporal (T3 max) spikes. Note that these potentials may at least in part be related
to breach rhythm.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.





IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous left temporal polymorphic delta slowing


2. Occasional left temporal spikes, which may at least in part be related to breach rhythm


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of left temporal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in
etiology. Left temporal spikes may reflect a region of potential epileptogenicity, though a breach
rhythm may also account for their appearance.


Previous EEGs have noted bifrontal slowing - this was suboptimally assessed in the present study due
to very frequent eye blink artifact.





Attending Epileptologist: 

I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.
















































