HISTORY:

57 y.o. female with a history of seizures, now presents with increase in seizure
frequency.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 500 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days. Take
one tablet at bedtime.


levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily.


etodolac (LODINE) 300 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3 times daily.

cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily as needed for
Muscle spasms.


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

ipratropium-albuterol (COMBIVENT RESPIMAT) 20-100 mcg/actuation Mist, Inhale 1 puff into the
lungs 4 times daily. As needed for shortness of breath




montelukast (SINGULAIR) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.

sumatriptan (IMITREX) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth as needed for Migraine.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

During arousals the posterior dominant rhythm reaches polymorphic moderate to high amplitude 8
Hz theta activity.  AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient is weak and diffuse excess theta activity is
present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) generalized frontally predominant low to high amplitude spikes and
polyspikes with aftergoing slow waves are captured.  They are either isolated or occur at a repetition
rate of ~3-4 Hz.  Longest burst of this activity lasts ~ 1.5 seconds.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Regular VNS activation artifact is present, most noticeable in the EKG lead.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.






EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep 1 hour routine EEG due to:

1. Mild diffuse slowing


2. Occasional generalized spikes and polyspikes that occur either in isolation or in up to 1.5 second
bursts at a repetition rate of ~3-4 Hz.





CLINICAL CORRELATION:



Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.



Generalized epileptiform discharges are suggestive of a generalized type of epilepsy.


Similar findings were reported on the 2014 EEG recording.
