DATE OF STUDY: 09/16/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep





HISTORY:

 a 24 y.o. female with a history of teen onset epilepsy, only a handful of tonic-
clonic seizures in her life.  Grandfather had epilepsy.  Past EEGs showed spike and wave or
something similar.  Today, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 25 mg tablet,  75 mgNo current facility-administered medications for this
visit.
TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:










The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Alpha squeak was noted During drowsiness, slow rolling
eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


discrete epileptiform activity is present, only in drowsiness.  There is a pair of frontally predominant 5-
6 Hz discrete spike and wave discharges with an additional after going slow wave.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None

ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Produces an increase in amplitude of the background

Photic Stimulation: Elicits a vigorous driving response



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormalroutine EEG.

#1 frontally predominant discrete spike and wave activity


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This  EEG pattern is similar to the one that the patient described.  It is typical of that seen in
generalized epilepsy.  This EEG does  support the diagnosis of epilepsy.















