HISTORY:

56 y.o. female with a history of recent left

hemispheric tumor resection, now with fluctuating mental status,


concerning for subclinical seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


KEPPRA, DECADRON, MORPHINE, OXYCODONE,




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.





EEG BACKGROUND:


There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower

waveforms over the left.



The waking background over the right consists of 10 Hz alpha

posteriorly and expected AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient.



The waking background over the left has no posterior dominant

rhythm or AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient.  It consists of a


mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity that are

especially pronounced over the left sagittal leads.

Intermittently, mostly when the patient is awake, brief bursts of

non-evolving rhythmic left temporal delta activity are captured


(TIRDA).



Diffuse excess beta activity is noted.


Sleep spindles are captured.  They are better visualized over the

left.  Patient rapidly transitions to sleep.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


Focal slowing - continuous - moderate - left hemisphere,

primarily sagittal leads


TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity) - left

Beta - excess


No electrographic seizures

Sleep stage II - better visualized over the left





CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep portable 22-minute EEG due

to focal left hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over

the left temporal region and intermittent rhythmic left temporal


delta activity.



The latter finding indicates a potentially epileptogenic focus in

the left temporal region.


Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural


lesion on the left.



Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication

effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.
