HISTORY:

31 y.o. male with a history of  seizures since age 13, bipolar disease.  Admitted to
hospital after seizure in shelter, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) tablet 400 mg

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL) tablet 600 mg

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 750 mg


TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.  This is a bedside portable record in a
very drowsy adult




EEG BACKGROUND:








The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
theta alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive  7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  There is 6
Hz central theta




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




Mild to moderate generalized slowing is present.

Intermittent left temporal focal slowing is present.  This is more prominent in stage II sleep.  This
includes somewhat irregular mixed theta delta and disruption of faster frequency activity.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) initially, sharply contoured left temporal focal slowing gives way to a
well-defined left temporal sharp waves and stage II sleep well-defined left temporal sharp waves and
occasional spikes.  Medium amplitude anterior temporal maximum.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Tactile and verbal stimulation produces an alerting with eye opening

EVENTS: There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE: A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1.  Left temporal sharp waves, more prominent in sleep

2.  Intermittent left temporal focal slowing


3.  Mild generalized background slowing

CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are relatively typical for left temporal lobe seizures.  The background slowing may be
part of this patient's usual background or may represent postictal generalized slowing.  No seizures
were recorded
