START DATE OF STUDY: 04/05/2016

END DATE OF STUDY: 04/07/2016



RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: 

EEG TYPE: Long term recording





HISTORY:

a 27 y.o. right handed female admitted for continuous


video-electroencephalography (VEEG) monitoring with a history of:

paroxysmal events of unclear etiology.




Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Evaluation of paroxysmal




events.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more

of the following reasons:


- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or

clinical events, which poses a significant mortality and

morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and

determining best treatment options.  If seizures are left


untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual

mortality rate.


- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient

number of clinical events or seizures, while medication are

reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures

and at risk of seizures causing injury or status epilepticus;


- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures

and it includes nurses trained to provide first aid and patient


safety during seizures;

- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these

medical emergency situations should they arise, including nurses

to document patient's exam


(9) there have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG

monitoring procedures, so this is not a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of

monitoring.  The patient then underwent continuous CCTV/EEG


monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were

placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20


international electrode system.  Additionally, T1, F9, T9, P9,

T2, F10, T10, and P10 electrodes were placed in this patient.

Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case.  Impedances

were measured and verified to be below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was


recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored

to computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently


reformatted to the montage of interest and reviewed in detail.




Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and

computerized algorithms allowed detection of epileptiform EEG


activity and correlation with behavior.  For approximately 8

hours each day the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A


neurologist was available in person or on call 24 hours per day.

The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a

registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and

testing.  During times when a technician was not available, EEG


recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and

nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.



The Gotman spike and seizure detection computer program

(trademark named

time for electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.


Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.  Detections were

reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and


detections, as well as selected samples, were stored to external

hard drive media.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

metFORMIN (GLUCOPHAGE) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2


times daily (with meals).

blood sugar diagnostic (CONTOUR NEXT EZ STRIPS) Strip, Check BS

daily

risperiDONE (RISPERDAL) 2 mg tablet, Take 2 mg by mouth 2 times


daily.

FLUoxetine (PROZAC) 20 mg capsule, Take 30 mg by mouth daily.


clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth 2 times

daily as needed for Anxiety.

lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 150 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily.


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 100 mg tablet, Take 1.5 tablets by mouth 2

times daily.




No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None



DAY 1 (4/4/2016  - 4/5/2016, 06:00)



BACKGROUND:


The waking background is continuous, symmetric, well-organized.



Posterior dominant rhythm consists of moderate amplitude 12 Hz


alpha activity.  The AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient

Is present.


The background is reactive and variable.



There were no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.



Sleep was characterized by symmetric sleep spindles and/or

K-complexes.  Slow wave sleep and REM sleep are captured.



Diffuse excess beta activity is present.



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None present



EVENTS: A single prolonged events is captured.  It lasts ~ 20

minutes.  Clinically, it starts with patient hyperventilating


with eyes closed.  Patient does not answer questions.  She starts

having intermittent brief minor body jerks.  These jerks

intensify.  When the patient is examined by the attending

physician, her eyes are closed, she has right sided gaze


deviation upon eye opening by the examiner.  She has moderate

intensity body jerks.  Her arms fall gradually besides her body


upon testing.    Jerking stops after a few minutes and patient

becomes stiff.  Upon testing, patient's arms and legs are rigid.


Eventually, her right arm assumes half flexed position and left

arm is extended.  Patient remains in that position for at least


several minutes.  She eventually relaxes, remains still with eyes

closed and non-responding.  Once she starts responding, she has


no memory of the event (except that she had headache prior to the

event onset), does not recall the code word, is not oriented well

to the situation or the date.



Electrographically, the background remains normal awake

background with occasional movement artifact.  Eventually,


underriding diffuse delta activity develops - likely a result of

hyperventilation.


DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:


Normal awake and asleep ~20 hour EEG with excess beta.  Excessive beta

activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as


benzodiazepines or barbiturates.


A single typical event of unresponsiveness, diffuse non-rhythmic

shaking, stiffness had no abnormal EEG correlate.  Patient's


mother who was shown the video the next day, confirmed that the

event was one of patient's typical events.






-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 2 (4/5/2016, 06:00 - 4/5/2016, 06:00)


AEDs: lamictal 150 mg BID, topamax 75 mg in am and 50 mg in pm.



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

No change.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.


EKG: A single lead captured normal heart rate.




DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:


Normal awake and asleep 24 hour EEG with excess beta.  Excessive beta

activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as

benzodiazepines or barbiturates.









-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 3 (4/6/2016, 06:00 - 4/7/2016)


AEDs: lamictal 50 mg BID, topamax off



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:


No change.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



SEIZURES/EVENTS:


Two typical events are captured.


(1) Duration: ~ 6.5 minutes of shaking with some response ~2 minutes after the shaking stops.  Onset:
6:56:26 AM.  Patient is awake, under the covers.  She starts shaking suddenly with eyes closed.  She
continues to have diffuse shaking of variable intensity, semiology, that waxes and wanes over the
next ~6.5 minutes.  There is associated pelvic thrusting and bicycling movements.  Her eyes remain
closed and she does not respond.  Electrographically, the event is associated  With movement artifact
of variable frequency and intensity.  Once shaking stops, normal awake background is seen.





(2) 9:38:35 am.  Semiologically and electrographically similar to the event (1) that occurs earlier in
the say.



EKG: A single lead captured normal heart rate.




DAY 3 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:


Normal awake and asleep 24 hour EEG with excess beta.  Excessive beta

activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as

benzodiazepines or barbiturates.



Two prolonged events characterized by diffuse shaking of variable intensity/ semiology, that waxes
and wanes, with associated pelvic thrusting and bicycling movements had no abnormal ictal
correlate.







________




INDUCTION PROCEDURES:


Sleep deprivation

Photic stimulation


Hyperventilation

Exercise


SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:


Interictal Findings:

Normal awake and asleep study.



Ictal Findings:

The patient had 3 typical prolonged events characterized by diffuse shaking of variable intensity and
semiology, that waxes and wanes, with associated pelvic thrusting and bicycling movements.  These
had no abnormal ictal correlate.






SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:


1. Nonepileptic events


EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:


1. Nonepileptic events


CONCLUSION:


was admitted to the  for 3 days with continuous video EEG.
Three typical events were captured during the admission, none had any abnormal ictal correlate and
were felt to be nonepileptic.





The patient was weaned off Topamax and Lamictal over the course of her admission. She was
restarted on Topamax 150 mg BID - used to migraine control/ prophylaxis, not as an AED (anti-
epileptic medication).   was instructed to speak to her psychiatrist re: Lamictal for mood
stabilization.  Attempts to reach patient's psychiatrist prior to her discharge proved to be fruitless.












The patient had an extensive discussion with  about nonepileptic events and their
association with underlying psychiatric co-morbidities and are not due to abnormal electrical
discharges of the brain/cortex.  According to the patient's mother,.  events started soon
after she failed a very important nursing exam.







We recommend that she continues to follow-up with her psychiatrist and informs her psychiatrist of the
non-epileptic events diagnosis.



Patient is follow-up with at the  as an outpatient.




