HISTORY:

74 y.o. female with a history of previous meningioma surgery, status post all
factory aura followed by seizure referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


timolol (TIMOPTIC) 0.5 % ophthalmic solution, Place 1 drop into both eyes 2 times daily. She would
like monthly mail order refills


pantoprazole (PROTONIX) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth daily as needed.

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, 1,000 unit Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:






A bedside  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG. patient has a right frontal skull
defect



EEG BACKGROUND:

The patient is asleep throughout the entire record and awakens briefly to stimulation The waking
background is characterized by the presence of a low voltage symmetric mixture of alpha and beta
frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal
anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is addressed by a low voltage mixed frequency pattern with breach rhythm and accentuation of
right frontal beta.  Vertex waves and spindles can be identified



No generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.


EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 50 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:




This is a normal routine EEG due to:

1. this is a very drowsy patient but the waking background is normal


2. breach rhythm is anticipated finding following craniotomy



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are frequently found in association with skull defect.  No epileptiform activity was
noted.
