HISTORY:

27 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy in setting of mitochondrial disorder, and
additionally nonepileptic behavioral events, referred for routine EEG for management of seizure
exacerbation.




MEDICATIONS: Phenobarbital, Vimpat



SEDATION: None listed


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by disorganized sharply contoured theta and excess beta
and delta, the latter which is frontally predominant. There is no clear posterior dominant rhythm, and
there is no state change captured during this record.




Sleep transients are not seen.



Moderate to severe generalized slowing is present.


No persistent focal slowing is seen.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY, EVENTS:

No clear sharp waves or spikes.


At times frontal delta becomes quasi-rhythmic and notched in runs of 2.5 Hz. There is no definite
evolution and no definite clinical change associated with this pattern.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Moderate to severe generalized slowing and disorganization


2. Runs of notched frontal delta, quasi rhythmic at 2.5 Hz without clear evolution.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of moderate to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.



The significance of the runs of notched frontal delta is unclear. There is no definite clinical
correlation, nor is there definite evolution.

Excess beta may be seen in the setting of a medication effect (benzodiazepines, barbiturates).



Following this study the patient was continued on long term monitoring.
