DATE OF STUDY: 06/14/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: ICU


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep



HISTORY:

a 73 y.o. male with a history of L PCA stroke, presenting after having a rapid
response with decrease in mental status, respiratory failure, and new onset seizure, referred for
routine EEG for management of seizure exacerbation.




MEDICATIONS: Keppra



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:








The waking background is continuous, symmetric, and reactive. During brief periods of wakefulness,
the background consists of alpha with admixed excess of theta and delta frequencies, organized in
an anterior to posterior gradient that is present but suboptimal.  Fragments of an irregular posterior
dominant rhythm that approaches 7-8 Hz are present bilaterally but at times appear more attenuated
over the right.





Drowsiness and sleep are characterized by further slowing of the background. Rare vertex waves are
seen during stage I sleep.



Mild to moderate generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

An irregular, wide complex heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization


2. A posterior dominant rhythm that at times appeared more attenuated over the right

3. An irregular, wide complex heart rate of 96 bpm captured on a single EKG lead



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction. A posterior
dominant rhythm that at times is more attenuated over the right is suggestive of right occipital
dysfunction (of curiosity is that the PCA stroke is on the contralateral side); however this finding may
alternatively be seen with any etiology that increases the recording distance between cortex and
recording electrodes (such as scalp hematoma or subdural hematoma). Clinical correlation is
advised.





An irregular, wide complex heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.





Attending Epileptologist:

I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.


