DATE OF STUDY: 01/06/17

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep



HISTORY:

a 53 y.o. female with a history of intracranial hemorrhage, craniotomy, bipolar
disorder, and complex partial seizures, with recent increased seizure frequency, referred for routine
EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


calcium-vitamin D (OSCAL) 250 (625)-125 mg-unit per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.
Please check dosage

Bisacodyl 5 mg Tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.


baclofen (LIORESAL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily as needed.

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 400 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain
for up to 10 days.


lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide (PRINZIDE,ZESTORETIC) 20-12.5 mg per tablet, Take 2 tablets by
mouth daily for 360 days.


amLODIPine (NORVASC) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

atenolol (TENORMIN) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.




ranitidine (ZANTAC) 150 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

oxcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 600 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.


lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 100 mg tablet, 2 in AM and 3 at night

trazodone (DESYREL) 150 mg tablet, nightly.


mirtazapine (REMERON) 30 mg tablet,

hydrOXYzine (VISTARIL) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth at bedtime as needed.

ziprasidone (GEODON) 80 mg capsule, daily.

escitalopram oxalate (LEXAPRO) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. Indications: Major
Depressive Disorder




No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


A left sided craniotomy defect was noted. The waking background is characterized poorly organized
medium amplitude 7-8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). Low amplitude anteriorly
predominant beta activity is seen. A large amount of EKG artifact is noted. Occasional sharp
transients were seen in the left central and temporal regions at T3-C3 and less frequently on the right
at T6. At times, these discharges were semirhythmic, occurring predominantly during drowsiness, and
were difficult to distinguish from temporal wicket activity.





During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Stage II sleep was marked by the appearance of synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep
spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.




EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 68 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Background disorganization and mild slowing of dominant posterior rhythmic activity during
wakefulness.


2. Infrequent sharp transients in left greater than right centrotemporal regions -  ? Benign temporal
wicket activity vs sharp waves.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



The background slowing and disorganization are nonspecific and indicate a mild bihemispheric
functional disturbance such as that seen with a variety of mild generalized encephalopathies of
various etiologies. Possible mild left greater than right centro-temporal irritative activity also noted,
as detailed above.


























