HISTORY:

60 y.o. male with a history of prior left

frontal craniotomy but no other known history, who presented with


a seizure at home earlier this morning, now referred for routine

EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: Versed, Keppra, Dilantin


SEDATION: as above



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous but asymmetric.


The right hemisphere is fairly organized and consists of a

mixture of theta-alpha activity posteriorly with low amplitude


waveforms anteriorly. There is a posterior dominant rhythm of 7

Hz.

The left hemisphere is poorly organized and consists of

continuous delta activity with admixed theta over the


fronto-temporal regions, with more attenuated rhythms

posteriorly. There is no posterior dominant rhythm.



Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.


Mild generalized slowing is present.


Continuous left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing is present,

and continuous attenuation is noted over the left posterior


quadrant leads.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake only routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Continuous left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing


3. Continuous attenuation noted over the left posterior quadrant

leads



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left fronto-temporal

cerebral dysfunction and left posterior quadrant cortical


dysfunction which may be structural in etiology. There is also

evidence for mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
