HISTORY:

53 y.o. female with a history of breast cancer, TB, current drug user, current
smoker, COPD,  presented with recent seizure, now referred for routine EEG for characterization of
seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


chlorproMAZINE (THORAZINE) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth 3 times daily.


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.  This was a very tense patient
with a lot of muscle artifact




EEG BACKGROUND:






The waking background is very low-voltage, somewhat featureless but is symmetric, reactive, and
consists of a  moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior
gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not sustained



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:      Photic Stimulation: Vigorous bilateral driving was noted


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal low voltage awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG. A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the
diagnosis of epilepsy.  If epilepsy is an important consideration, please consider a one hour repeat
study
