


HISTORY:

a 25 y.o. female with a history of episodes since

age : characterized by palpitations, shortness of breath,


tunnel vision, lightheadedness, and sometimes loss of

consciousness, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of

paroxysmal events. These can be provoked by changes in body or


head/eye position.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

MYORISAN 40 mg capsule,

ALBUTEROL IN, Inhale  into the lungs.


ondansetron (ZOFRAN ODT) 4 mg disintegrating tablet, Take 1

tablet by mouth every 8 hours as needed for Nausea.

EPINEPHrine (EPIPEN) 0.3 mg/0.3 mL (1:1,000) injection, Use for


rescue only or if you feel you are going into anaphylaxis or




cannot breathe. Go to the Emergecny Department immediately after

use.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.


Drowsiness and sleep are not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



Of note, there is prominent eye flutter artifact throughout the

record, especially during photic stimulation.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric


background slowing. *Of note, the patient mentions that

hyperventilation produces mild dizziness, although she states


this dizziness is of a different character than her presenting

symptoms.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) produces photic driving, which is a

normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake only  routine EEG.  There are no clinical

or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake only routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.







Attending Epileptologist:

I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents

my findings and conclusions.













