
HISTORY:

25 y.o. female with a history of epilepsy since childhood, seizure free x13
years referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: Lamictal



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.






During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and bursts of sharply contoured theta activity with diffuse background slowing are
seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves.
Stage II sleep transients are not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


There is abundant bitemporal independent sharply contoured polymorphic slowing. The slowing is
often quasi-rhythmic.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) diffuse frontally predominant polyspike-and-wave activity. There is no
asymmetry with respect to onset.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Abundant bitemporal independent sharply contoured polymorphic slowing, which is often quasi-
rhythmic


2. Occasional diffuse frontally predominant polyspike-and-wave activity







CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of a diffuse epileptogenic process which may be primarily
generalized or secondarily so with rapid bisynchrony. There is additional evidence for bitemporal
independent cerebral dysfunction. Previous EEGs have also demonstrated diffuse epileptogenic
processes with evidence of temporal dysfunction.
