HISTORY:

 a 26 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy, now with improving seizures
characterized by- warning (sees people talking to him, just like before) followed by "only" momentary
confusion referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Semana 1: 1000 mg AM, 1500 mg PM, Semana 2 +:
1500 mg 2x/dia



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  1 hour Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. Generous beta was noted.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, but not sustained. Slow wave sleep was not
captured.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:





A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.






































































