HISTORY:

78 y.o. female with a history of suspected genetic generalized epilepsy referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 250 mg EC tablet, 1 in AM 2 at PM

donepezil (ARICEPT) 10 mg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth at bedtime


amLODIPine (NORVASC) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide (PRINZIDE,ZESTORETIC) 20-25 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth
daily.


Aspirin 81 mg Tablet, Take  by mouth.

levothyroxine (SYNTHROID, LEVOTHROID) 25 mcg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every other day.


Cyanocobalamin (VITAMIN B-12) 100 mcg Tab, Take 100 mcg by mouth.

levalbuterol (XOPENEX) 0.63 mg/3 mL nebulizer solution, Take 1 ampule by nebulization every 4
hours as needed for Wheezing.





budesonide-formoterol (SYMBICORT) 160-4.5 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs 2
times daily.


Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha, beta, and theta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.


Abundant bitemporal synchronous and independent polymorphic slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Occasional (1/hour to <1min) frontally predominant generalized spike-wave activity, occurring in
isolation and in runs of 5 Hz for < 1 second.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Occasional frontally predominant intermittent rhythmic delta activity (FIRDA, also known as GRDA) at
1 Hz for runs < 10 seconds are noted in drowsiness.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities. There is no photoparoxysmal response.





EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing


2. Abundant bitemporal synchronous and independent polymorphic slowing

3. Occasional frontally predominant generalized spike-wave activity, occurring in isolation and in
runs of 5 Hz


4. Occasional frontally predominant intermittent rhythmic delta activity


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



The generalized spike-wave discharges are consistent with the presence of a primary generalized
epilepsy.



Diffuse slowing of the background, as well as bitemporal slowing, are etiologically nonspecific
indicators of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction as well as bitemporal dysfunction, which have also
been noted on prior recordings and may be correlated with imaging.




Frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity (GRDA, also known as FIRDA) is a
nonspecific but pathologic finding that is most commonly seen in toxic-metabolic states, but may
also be seen with deep structural lesions or increased intracranial pressure. Clinical correlation is
advised.
