DATE OF STUDY: 05/20/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep





HISTORY:

a 22 y.o. female with a history of syncope, headaches and blackouts referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically unsatisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.  There is excess muscle
artifact noted throughout the eeg.




EEG BACKGROUND:



The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: increases amplitude of the background



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding. Patient falling asleep in photic



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead. Regular



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.




A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.  There is muscle and
electrode artifact, but the EEG is interpretable.


































































