HISTORY:

35 y.o. female with a history of migraines, depression, refractory seizures, status
post left anterior temporal lobectomy, memory loss, medication noncompliance, referred for routine
EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Tablet, Take  by mouth. Indications:
ANTICONVULSANT-INDUCED OSTEOMALACIA, VITAMIN D DEFICIENCY

LAMICTAL 200 mg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth twice a day


clobazam 10 mg Tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth nightly.

pregabalin (LYRICA) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily.

metoclopramide (REGLAN) 10 mg tablet, One at the onset of HA with nause



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of poorly organized 9-10 Hz posterior
rhythmic activity which was reactive to eye opening and closing. Prominent generalized beta activity
was seen which was higher in amplitude over left frontotemporal regions than corresponding regions
on the right. In addition, higher amplitude intermittent rhythmic alpha frequency activity was seen
over left anterior hemisphere scalp regions.





During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) suspicious sharp transients were seen in the left temporal region at T3.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

EKG monitor showed an irregular supraventricular rhythm at 65-75/m (? Atrial fibrillation).





IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild background disorganization


2. Higher amplitude beta activity and rhythmic alpha frequency activity over the left anterior
hemisphere, likely representing a breach rhythm

3. Several suspicious left temporal sharp transients at T3 were noted of uncertain clinical
significance.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Background disorganization is nonspecific and may indicate a mild diffuse disturbance of cerebral
activity such as that seen with a variety of mild generalized encephalopathies of various etiologies.
Higher amplitude alpha and beta activity over the left anterior hemisphere likely represents a breach
rhythm secondary to skull defect from previous craniotomy. Several suspicious T3 sharp transients
were, at times, difficult to distinguish from background and are of uncertain significance. No other
definite pathologic paroxysmal epileptiform activity was seen.
