HISTORY:

36 y.o. male with a history of


depression, presenting with eye rolling spells without loss of

consciousness; also with one episode of hearing noise, shaking,

being able to hear people, but being unable to speak. He is now


referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth

daily.


divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 500 mg EC tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 3

times daily.

diphenhydrAMINE (BENADRYL) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth


nightly as needed for Itching.




busPIRone (BUSPAR) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth 3 times

daily.


omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

fluoxetine (PROZAC) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.


baclofen (LIORESAL) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth 3 times

daily.

mirtazapine (REMERON) 30 mg tablet, Take 30 mg by mouth nightly.

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 800 mg tablet, Take 800 mg by mouth


every 6 hours as needed for Pain.

propranolol (INDERAL) 60 mg tablet, Take 60 mg by mouth 3 times


daily.

montelukast (SINGULAIR) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth

nightly.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a


symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).

The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and


amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Occasional bilaterally synchronous frontal polymorphic slow waves


are present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Frequent left frontal (F3 max) sharp waves, sharp-and-slow

waves, and spikes

2. Frequent right frontal (F4 max) sharp waves, sharp-and-slow


waves, and spikes

Though the above are seen independently, they are often


bilaterally synchronous


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy routine EEG due to:


1. Occasional bilaterally synchronous frontal polymorphic slow

waves


2. Frequent left frontal (F3 max) sharp waves, sharp-and-slow

waves, and spikes


3. Frequent right frontal (F4 max) sharp waves, sharp-and-slow

waves, and spikes; at times bisynchronously occurring with


aforementioned left frontal discharges



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of bi-frontal synchronous

and independent epileptogenic potentials, superimposed on

bi-frontal cerebral dysfunction.
