HISTORY:

56 y.o. male with a history of seizures and

left hemiparesis referred for routine EEG for characterization of


seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

ascorbic acid (VITAMIN C) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth

daily.


multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

daily.

traZODone (DESYREL) 100 mg tablet, Take 200 mg by mouth nightly.


citalopram (CELEXA) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.

levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1.5 tablets by mouth

2 times daily.


thiamine 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.





No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep one-hour EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep one-hour EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.

