DATE OF STUDY: 04/29/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: OR


EEG TYPE: xx Hours, OR study





HISTORY:

a 66 y.o. male with a history of Large chronic infarct

with hemosiderin staining  in the left MCA distribution with ex


vacuo dilatation of the left lateral ventricle. Presented seizure and was found to have  PTE when
referred for routine EEG for OR monitoring for left pulmonary thrombectomy



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


multivitamin with minerals tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

thiamine 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.



Current facility-administered medications for this visit.

FENTANYL, MIDAZOLAM, ROCURONIUM






TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG.  Standard operative montage was utilized.  A 13
minute baseline was performed prior to the procedure.  The EEG was monitored with one-on-one
physician remote review





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is asymmetric, reactive, and on the right consists of a mixture of alpha and a
moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.
Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive  7-8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR),
which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.



The left hemisphere demonstrates disruption of the alpha rhythm, slower alpha rhythm, generally,
disruption of faster frequency activity and some irregular mixed theta and delta


Generalized slowing is present.  Focal slowing is present.


Operative EEG:


Two-hour EEG was performed during left thrombectomy, with mild hypothermia.  The pre- induction
baseline was asymmetric, with more rhythmic slowing noted on the left.  This was noted after
induction and was relatively unchanged during the procedure.  Rare sharp waves were noted from
the left temporal region.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Rare sharp waves were noted from the left temporal region.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84-140 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION:






Two-hour operative EEG monitor remarkable for focal slowing noted on the left, prior to the
procedure, congruent with previous left middle cerebral artery infarct.  In this patient with known
seizures, there were rare sharp waves.  Hypothermia and the use of anesthetic agents did not
particularly augment these findings.  The patient was never cooled to electrocerebral silence.






