HISTORY:

57 y.o. female who woke up from sleep in

morning with left frontal laceration, bleeding w/o knowing what


happened to her and no memory of that trauma, referred for

routine EEG for characterization of probable first seizure.



MEDICATIONS: no AEDs


SEDATION: None listed



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically suboptimal record; the

technician noted that the patient wore hair gel and impedences <


10 kOhm could not be obtained.  The study included a single




channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous and symmetric but


suboptimally organized. It consists of a mixture of alpha and

beta frequencies with admixed excess of sharply contoured delta

activity.

Fragments of an irregular ~10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm


(PDR) are present and symmetric. The normal anterior-to-posterior

gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but suboptimal.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



Mild generalized slowing is present.

There is frequent polymorphic delta activity seen both

independently and synchronously over the temporal regions.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


At times the delta slowing over both temporal regions appears

rhythmic at 1-1.5 Hz (lateralized rhythmic delta activity, also

known as temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity).



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal, though technically suboptimal, awake and

drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing, with excess of delta activity and

suboptimal organization

2. Frequent polymorphic delta activity seen both independently

and synchronously over the temporal regions


3. Rhythmic delta activity seen independently over both temporal

regions, both synchronously and independently



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of bitemporal cerebral

dysfunction superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


Rhythmic delta activity seen independently over the temporal

regions is associated with epileptogenic potential from those


regions.
