HISTORY:

50 y.o. male with a single episode of coughing followed by LOC, diagnosed at an
outside hospital as "seizure," referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levocetirizine (XYZAL) 5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every evening for 360 days.

fluticasone (FLONASE) 50 mcg/actuation nasal spray, 2 sprays by Each Nare route daily for 30 days.


meclizine (ANTIVERT) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily as needed for Dizziness or
Nausea.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




The patient is quick to become drowsy and fall asleep, despite repeated instructions and coaxing to
stay awake for testing by the EEG technician.



During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation was attempted for 180 seconds, but patient quickly fell asleep
despite repeated coaxing by technician; a drowsy pattern was noted at this time.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed
during stage II sleep, does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.






IMPRESSION:

This awake and asleep routine EEG is remarkable only for the tendency of the patient to easily fall
asleep, despite repeated instructions from the EEG tech to stay awake.  There are no clinical or
electrographic events reported or detected.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This finding may be seen in the setting of sleep deprivation.


If clinically warranted, a sleep study may be of benefit.

There were no epileptiform features or pathologic slowing seen during this study.

This routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
