HISTORY:

74 y.o. MALE WITH PMHX OF PONTINE CVA,

HYPERGLYCEMIC 400.  WITH SEIZURES.




MEDICATIONS:


Keppra


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured


Frequent left anterior temporal polymorphic delta was seen.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.


EVENTS:

There are 2  electrographic events captured during this study.



CPS #1 02/09/2016 03:33PM


EEG: Sudden rhythmic F7- 2Hz discharge that in 7 seconds

increases to a theta frequency and spreads thought the hemisphere

and to the right frontal region. It continues to evolve

decreasing in frequency and increasing in amplitude as it slows


down and it then stops.

HR does not change during the seizure.


Seizure lasts 1min 45 seconds

Clinical: The patient stares and does not follow verbal or motor


commands.




CPS#2 02/09/2016 03:35PM (~30 seconds after ending the previous


one)

EEG: Sudden rhythmic F7- 2Hz discharge that in 8 seconds

increases to a theta frequency and spreads thought the hemisphere

and to the right frontal region. It continues to evolve


decreasing in frequency and increasing in amplitude as it slows

down and it then stops.


HR does not change during the seizure.

Seizure lasts 1min

Clinical: The patient stares and does not follow verbal or motor

commands.





HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Two left anterior temporal seizures.


2. Frequent left anterior temporal focal slow.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are consistent with localization related epilepsy


arising from the left anterior temporal region. In addition there

is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left anterior


temporal region, which is non -specific with regards to etiology.
