HISTORY:

52 y.o. female with a history of ILD, pulmonary

fibrosis, chronic hypoxic respiratory failure, GERD, renal


failure on HD, and gastroparesis referred for routine EEG for

assessment of mental status change and new onset right gaze

deviation, right facial droop, and twitching since this morning.



MEDICATIONS: Dilantin 100 q8h; thiamine, protonix, nystatin,

insulin, daptomycin, reglan, agratroban drip



SEDATION: none listed



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically




suboptimal record due to periods of muscle/movement artifact, and

included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:



The background is continuous, grossly symmetric, disorganized,

and not clearly reactive. During periods of relative relaxation

from body tremors, the background consists of low amplitude delta


with admixed alpha and theta.

There is no clear reactivity or state change to noxious


stimulation or passive eye opening/closure.


Severe generalized slowing is present.

There is no definite focal slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


There is no definite epileptiform activity; however, background

is obscured by movement artifact during tremors (see below)


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.


EVENTS:


09:37 (~4 min), 09:47 (~5 min)

Episodes of body tremors are captured. These are


described by tech as

continuous but irregular jerking movements (left side of head and

trunk are captured on video). Eyes are not visible on camera.

EEG and EKG leads during these times are obscured by


muscle/movement artifact.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal asleep only routine EEG due to:

1. Severe generalized slowing and background disorganization


2. Episodes of body tremors described above correlating with EEG

movement/muscle artifact


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of severe diffuse cerebral

dysfunction.


Episodes of body tremor correlate with movement/muscle artifact

on EEG, which obscures underlying cerebral rhythms. If clinically

indicated, a repeat study with a trial of neuromuscular blockade

may be of benefit to better visualize underlying cerebral


rhythms.
