HISTORY:

33 y.o. Left handed male with a history of

spina bifida and shunt (age 2, right frontal scar noted by tech),


and onset of episodes with aura, shaking, and loss of

consciousness with incontinence and tongue biting, followed by

postictal state, referred for routine EEG for characterization of


seizures.


MEDICATIONS: Depakote, Keppra



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and




included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a


symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with excess of

delta frequencies in wake, and a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior

gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but suboptimal.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.


Sleep is not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.


There is frequent delta slowing, at times rhythmic at 2 Hz, seen

in the bifrontal regions synchronously.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Frequent bifrontal synchronous spike and wave activity (Fp1,

Fp2, Fz max).


2. Frequent left frontal spike and wave activity (Fp1 max >

F7/F3)

3. Frequent right frontal spike and wave activity (Fp2 max > F4)



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization


2. Frequent bifrontal synchronous spike and wave activity (Fp1,

Fp2, Fz max).

3. Frequent left frontal spike and wave activity (Fp1 max >

F7/F3)


4. Frequent right frontal spike and wave activity (Fp2 max > F4)



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of bifrontal epileptogenic

potential superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. At

times epileptogenic discharges appear generalized, and a


superimposed generalized epileptiform syndrome cannot be

completely excluded.

