HISTORY:

59 y.o. female with a history of a pontine

stroke, cerebrovascular disease, acute confusion referred for


routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.


MEDICATIONS:


predniSONE (DELTASONE) 5 mg tablet, Take 7.5mg daily for 2 weeks,

and maintain at 5mg daily

mycophenolate (CELLCEPT) 500 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2


times daily.

hydroxychloroquine (PLAQUENIL) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by

mouth every 12 hours. Indications: SYSTEMIC LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUS


baclofen (LIORESAL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily as

needed.

lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by


mouth daily.




gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2

times daily.


metoprolol (TOPROL-XL) 50 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

daily.


isosorbide mononitrate (IMDUR) 30 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet

by mouth daily. Indications: hypertension

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

Indications: Hypertension


oxycodone-acetaminophen (PERCOCET) 5-325 mg per tablet, Take 1

tablet by mouth every 4 hours as needed for Pain.


insulin glargine (LANTUS) 100 unit/mL injection, Inject 15 Units

into the skin nightly. Indications: Diabetes Mellitus


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed using digital video

EEG 21  channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and seizure and spike detection

software.


Day 1: 11/28/2015 at 1:42 PM to 11/29/2015

EEG BACKGROUND:

The intial background is slow and disorganized.  There is a theta

frequency background with shifting arrhythmic delta activity and


little in the way of the posterior dominant rhythm.  In the

initial hours of recording, the patient is relatively drowsy.


The patient transitions into sleep state with an increase in

beta.  By 11 p.m., the patient is increasingly awake.  The

overall background demonstrates an improved organization in the

posterior, subtle underlying sharply contoured discharges are


disappearing. The alpha rhythm is appearing at 7 Hz.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movementsdiffuse background

slowing are seen.



Sleep is  includes beta spindles.  Likely REM sleep was noted on


the morning of the 29th.  Shifting slowing is seen in sleep.



Generalized slowing is present.

Shifting  focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


The initial hours of recording, there is a subtle underlying left

occipital sharp waves noted.  As the recording continues, the


patient is increased in the awake interactive in the epileptiform

activity disappears by the second day of recording.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal 24 hour LTM  EEG due to:


1. initially marked background slowing and disorganization,

improving over time to modest background slowing.

2. subtle underlying occipital sharp wave, left-sided maximum,

noted in the early section of the record, fading away as the


patient became more awake and alert.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are nonspecific but are compatible with a diffuse


disturbance of cerebral function.  Underlying, bihemispheric

cerebrovascular disease, toxic or metabolic encephalopathy or


other cause may contribute to the transient but improving

slowing.  The sharp waves were seen only early on but do suggest


a potential for seizures.

