HISTORY:

69 y.o. female with a history of lung transplant, immunosuppression, ring-
enhancing cerebral lesions treated as toxoplasmosis, and a seizure 1 year ago, admitted 5/12/2016
for fever and bacteremia, referred for routine EEG for possible seizures.




MEDICATIONS: Flerxeril, Zofran, Prograf, Heparin, Atrovastatin, Keppra, Citalopram, Topamax,
Levothyroxine, Loperamide, Bactrin, Norvasc, Oxycodone



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically limited record,
with periods of muscle artifact obscuring the bi-temporal chains, rendering interpretation of these
regions suboptimal. The study included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is continuous, symmetric, reactive, and fairly organized. Waking background
consists of mostly theta with admixed alpha and sharply contoured delta.  Fragments of a symmetric
posterior dominant rhythm ~6-7 Hz are present.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and further
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.



Moderate generalized slowing is present.

No definite focal slowing is present.



Occasionally frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta at 1 Hz is seen for runs <7 seconds
(FIRDA [frontally predominant intermittent rhythmic delta activity], also known as frontal GRDA
[generalized rhythmic delta activity]).



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal, technically limited as noted above, awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Occasional frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta at 1 Hz for runs <7 seconds



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of a moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.




Frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity (GRDA, also known as FIRDA) is a
nonspecific but pathologic finding that is most commonly seen in toxic-metabolic states, but may
also be seen with deep structural lesions or increased intracranial pressure. Clinical correlation is
advised.
