HISTORY:

71 y.o. male with a history of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

aspirin (BAYER) 325 mg Tablet tablet, Take 325 mg by mouth daily.


clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth 2 times

daily.

mesalamine (LIALDA) 1.2 g EC tablet, Take 1,200 mg by mouth 3


times daily.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 250 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKGand

photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11.5


Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.



Patient remains awake throughout the recording.


Continuous widely distributed polymorphic theta activity is noted


over the right sagittal leads.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 210

seconds with poor cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


Focal slowing - continuous - mild - right sagittal leads

(primarily temporal), very widely disrtibuted


No epileptiform discharges

No sleep


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal awake-only 24-minute EEG due to continuous

mild left temporal focal slowing.


This finding indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, likely

structural in etiology.

No epileptiform discharges are present, but stage 2 sleep was not

recorded.  If clinically indicated, repeat EEG with sleep


recording may provide additional information.

