HISTORY:

73 y.o. male with a history of left PCA

infarct and GI bleed, with a possible seizure, referred for


routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS: Keppra



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically difficult hook-up; the

technician noted the patient was uncooperative and would not turn

his head so that she could double check placement of T5 and O1.


The study included a single channel of EKG.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a

fairly organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies,


with a reactive 8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) that

appears attenuated over the left. The normal

anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is

present but suboptimal.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.


Sleep is not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Attenuation of posterior dominant rhythm over the left



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of mild diffuse cerebral

dysfunction.  The attenuated posterior dominant rhythm over the

left is consistent with this patient's history of left PCA

infarct; however, suboptimal lead placement (tech noted she could


not confirm distances between T5 and O1) may have also

contributed.

