HISTORY:

29 y.o. female with a history of seizures heralded by



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, 1,000 unit Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

LORazepam (ATIVAN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1-2 Tablets ~1 hour prior to boarding the plane

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.


folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet, Take 4 tablets by mouth daily for 360 days.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with excess of theta activity, and with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz
posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present but suboptimal.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Abundant (>1/10s) bursts of occipitally-predominant generalized irregular spike- and polyspike-and-
wave activity, in wake and sleep, lasting up to 1 second



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:




This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization


2. Abundant (>1/10s) bursts of occipitally-predominant generalized irregular spike- and polyspike-and-
wave activity, in wake and sleep



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of generalized epileptogenic potentials, or possibly an occipital
focus of irritability with rapid bisynchrony, superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


When compared to this patient's prior routine EEG in 2015, the present study demonstrates increased
prevalence of epileptogenic discharges.
