HISTORY:

45 y.o. female with a history of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

meloxicam (MOBIC) 15 mg tablet, Take 15 mg by mouth daily.


omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 40 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily.

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily.

traZODone (DESYREL) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.


alprazolam (XANAX) 1 mg tablet,

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 25 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.

Leg Brace (KNEE BRACE) Misc, Hinge brace for left kneeDx: (M22.42) Patellofemoral chondrosis of
left knee (M25.561,  M25.562) Bilateral anterior knee pain



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.






SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 12 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During brief drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with fair cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and briefly drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and briefly drowsy  routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.


No epileptiform discharges are present, but stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If clinically indicated,
repeat EEG with sleep recording may provide additional information.
