HISTORY:

25 y.o. female with a history of sickle cell trait and antiphospholipid antibody
syndrome presenting as follow up after admission for RCVS and seizure, referred for routine EEG for
follow up EEG.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

verapamil (CALAN) 80 mg tablet, Take 80 mg by mouth 3 times daily.

magnesium oxide (MAG-OX) 400 mg tablet, Take 400 mg by mouth daily.


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 650 mg CR tablet, Take 650 mg by mouth every 4 hours as needed for
Pain.

SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:






A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but
suboptimal.



The waking background is frequently interrupted by bursts of sharply contoured quasi-rhythmic
frontally predominant delta activity at 2-3 Hz for runs < 4 seconds.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles
and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

There is frequent right and occasional independent left temporal polymorphic slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

1. Frontally predominant quasi-rhythmic delta activity at 2-3 Hz, as noted above



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:




A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Suboptimal organization

2. Frequent right temporal polymorphic slowing

3. Occasional independent left temporal polymorphic slowing

4. Frontally predominant quasi-rhythmic delta activity at 2-3 Hz



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of right > left temporal cerebral dysfunction, superimposed on a
mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


Frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity (GRDA, also known as FIRDA) is a
nonspecific but pathologic finding that is most commonly seen in toxic-metabolic states, but may
also be seen with deep structural lesions or increased intracranial pressure. In this patient's case, it
may reflect an ongoing CNS process.
