HISTORY:

64 y.o. female with a long hospital course,  history of right parietotemporal lobar
hematoma, mass effect on the


ventricles and  midline shift referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures/ MSE changes.



MEDICATIONS:

Keppra, Provigil, others



SEDATION:none


TECHNIQUE:


A bedside Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.  Patient
has a tracheostomy and is poorly responsive. She has a right sided skull defect.




EEG BACKGROUND:



This is a dynamic record.  It also is remarkable for a prominent asymmetry.  Throughout the record,
the right hemisphere demonstrates a low-voltage, slower more featureless pattern. The initial sections
of the record demonstrate.  Higher amplitude irregular mixed rhythmic delta theta from the left
hemisphere particularly left temporal region.  There are also left temporal sharp waves noted.  There
are multiple attempts to stimulate the patient which do seem to impact the record.  Later sections of
the record demonstrate more of a theta pattern from the left temporal region with admixed irregular
delta.  The sharp waves are not as prominent.




Clinically, the patient is unchanged, with eye opening, but not interactive.


The right hemisphere remains relatively invariant.

Generalized slowing is present.

Focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Left temporal sharp waves



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Sharpy contoured activity



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Stimulation seems to produce an alerting on the left

EVENTS:


There are  no clinical  events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 104  bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal drowsy and asleep ICU  EEG due to:

1. marked asymmetry with a much more suppressed pattern on the right

2. Left temporal sharp waves


3. Higher amplitude paroxysmal irregular slowing from the left hemisphere, L temporal max, which is
improving at the end of the EEG.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings were discussed with the clinical team.  This EEG supports and epileptiform process
from the left hemisphere.  No clinical seizures were recorded.  A plan was implemented for
additional management.
