DATE OF STUDY: 09/07/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep




HISTORY:

a 46 y.o. male with a history of seizure disorder with recent increased numbers of
seizures along with recent stress, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. Take with the 100 mg
tablets: dose increase


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background consists of well-developed symmetric and reactive medium amplitude 11-12
Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Low
voltage 18-30 Hz activity is seen symmetrically over anterior scalp regions.




During drowsiness, attenuation of posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse background slowing are
seen.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

A single low amplitude sharp transient in the left temporal region was seen during photic stimulation
of uncertain clinical significance.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces minimal
symmetric photic driving.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.






IMPRESSION:

Probably normal awake and asleep EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic seizures reported or
detected. A single sharp transient during photic stimulation in the left temporal region is of uncertain
clinical significance.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

The absence of more definitive interictal seizure activity cannot exclude the clinical diagnosis of
epilepsy. If clinically indicated, more prolonged sleep deprived tracing or ambulatory EEG may
provide additional helpful information.


