HISTORY:

66 y.o. female with a history of DOUBLE LUNG TRANSPLANT 8/2016, WITH
CHANGE IN MENTAL STATUS AND COMPLICATIONS INCLUDING CVA, referred for routine EEG
for assessment of mental status change. This is a follow up study from 9/20/2016.




MEDICATIONS: Dilaudid, colace, senakot



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically difficult record
due to abundant muscle artifact, particularly over the right temporal region. The study included a
single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is reactive but poorly organized. There is no posterior dominant rhythm.




The background is asymmetric.

The left hemisphere consists of disorganized delta and theta over the temporal region and more
attenuated frequencies over the parasagittal region.


Despite periods of abundant muscle artifact, there are attenuated faster frequencies over the right
hemisphere.



There is frequent bitemporal independent polymorphic delta slowing.



Very brief periods of drowsiness are characterized by further background slowing, with attenuation of
theta frequencies and increase in delta and beta. No sleep transients are seen.



There is moderate generalized slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 102 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy routine EEG due to:

1. Moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization


2. Attenuation of faster frequencies over the left parasagittal region and right hemisphere

3. Frequent bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing

4. Tachycardia



CLINICAL CORRELATION:






These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of a bitemporal cerebral dysfunction
superimposed on a moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.



Additionally, hemispheric asymmetry, with attenuation of faster frequencies seen over the left
parasagittal region and right hemisphere, are new compared with prior study. On review of study
performed, the patient appears more awake on today's study, and perhaps the asymmetry
was less prominent during the less awake state. However, follow up imaging is
recommended for correlation to rule out new etiologies of attenuation, which include cortical injury,
subdural hematoma, or scalp hematoma on the side ipsilateral to the attenuation.
