HISTORY:

79 y.o. male with a history of a recent stroke

with hemorrhagic conversion and midline shift, now wit persistent


lethargy.


MEDICATIONS:


Depakote




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and




photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

Patient is asleep throughout most of the recording.


There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower

waveforms over the right.


With maximal stimulation, the background over the left consists


of 8 Hz polymorphic theta activity posteriorly, poor AP gradient

and excess fast activity.


The background over the right consists of polymorphic 7-8 Hz

theta activity posteriorly, poor AP gradient, underriding slow

low amplitude delta activity and paucity of faster frequencies

and lower amplitudes over the  right anterior quadrant.



During drowsiness, the amount of diffuse polymorphic theta


activity increases. Sleep spindles are captured.  They are better

visualized over the left.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.





EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

An irregular heart rate of <60 bpm with inter-QRS pauses on >1.5


seconds is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

Diffuse slowing - moderate


Drowsiness - excessive

Focal slowing - continuous - moderate right hemisphere,

especially right anterior quadrant

Attenuation - right anterior quadrant


Cardiac arrhythmia

No epileptiform discharges



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and mostly asleep portable 26-minute

EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing that is more pronounced over


the right, especially right anterior quadrant.



Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral

dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but in this

patient, could be at least partially related to excessive

drowsiness (given the fact that he is unable to sustain arousals


even with stimulation).



Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural

lesion in over the right.


Voltage attenuation could be secondary to a fluid collection


between the brain and a skull (such as hematoma, empyema et etc).



An irregular heart rate of <60 bpm with inter-QRS pauses on >1.5

seconds is captured on a single EKG lead.
