HISTORY:

62 y.o. female with a history of seizures since 3 months ago (approximately 1-
2/month; onset with pain in head, then LOC and GTC with postictal confusion), referred for routine
EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS: KEPPRA, VENTOLIN, LOVASTATIN, SYMBICORT, APA/CODEINE,
ARIPIPRAZOLE


SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:








The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and an excess
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles
and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Occasional sharp waves, occurring as single waveforms and in runs, are noted over the bitemporal
regions independently, left > right. These likely represent a benign variant (wicket waves).



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces brief,
nonsustained symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an essentially normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.


Excess beta activity can be seen in the setting of a medication effect (i.e., benzodiazepines or
barbiturates).




The sharp waves described above most likely represent a benign variant (wicket waves).



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
