HISTORY:

26 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.


For LRE after after direct trauma to the right skull (had a rock thrown at his head) and had to have
decrompessive hemicraniectomy about 11-12 years ago in Dominican Republic, followed by a
cranioplasty 10 years ago and Re-op cranioplasty 2 years ago.


Semiology: nocturnal. He does not know. Prior semiologies include left arm shaking for 5-10 minutes,
denies LOC. Had one episode 3 months ago when he woke up feeling extremely tired and feeling
sweaty



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 500 mg EC tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 3 times daily.


calcium carbonate 500 mg calcium (1,250 mg) capsule, Take 1,250 mg by mouth 2 times daily (with
meals).


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 1 hour  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG , HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10-11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present. However, the breach rhythm is clearly seen in wakefullnes through stage
II sleep with an increase in amplitude on the right and an accentuation of faster frequency activity on
the right




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation:  Produces a somewhat asynchronous pattern with rhythmic slowing, a little more
prominent on the left



Photic Stimulation: Although the patient was falling into stage II sleep during photic stimulation
there was some driving noted



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60  bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal 1 hour routine EEG due to:

1. breach rhythm is an  anticipated finding following craniotomy



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are frequently found in association with craniotomy, there were no epileptiform
features identified
