DATE OF STUDY: 01/19/17

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy



HISTORY:

a 61 y.o. female with a history of epilepsy, orthopedic problems, referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.  Now seizure-free for at least 3 years



MEDICATIONS: Tegretol, others

TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.  She declined hyperventilation
because of shortness of breath.  There were some technical challenges to this EEG adjusting that
there may have been a minor error in head measurement.  Eye movement artifacts are not perfectly
symmetric



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, low voltage  and consists of a mixture of alpha and a
moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.
Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive low-voltage record with scant alpha activity.
There is prominent diffuse beta









During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  There is a question of some shifting
slowing noted in the central regions, but this may represent measurement error


Sleep includes generous vertex waves and delta


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION: This routine EEG is within normal limits

CLINICAL CORRELATION: Scant alpha rhythm can be seen in normals.  The asymmetries noted in
sleep with slight asymmetry in  delta may represent head measurement.  No epileptiform features
were seen


























