HISTORY:

31 y.o. female with a history of code in the setting of drug overdose, with
prolonged ICU course (12/2015), with report of seizure in 8/2016, referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


risperiDONE (RISPERDAL) 0.25 mg tablet, Take 0.25 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

Lamotrigine 100 mg Tablet, Rapid Dissolve, Take 100 mg by mouth 2 times daily. Indications: Pt.
takes 50 mg in the morning and 100 mg at bedtime


FOLIC ACID PO, Take 1 mg by mouth daily.

multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

thiamine 100 mg Tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth daily.


clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily as needed for Anxiety.

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 600 mg tablet,

diazepam (VALIUM) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth 2 times daily.


escitalopram oxalate (LEXAPRO) 5 mg tablet,


acetaminophen-codeine (TYLENOL #3) 300-30 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily
as needed for Pain.


metoprolol (LOPRESSOR) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

nadolol (CORGARD) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


ondansetron (ZOFRAN, AS HYDROCHLORIDE,) 4 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 8 hours as
needed for Nausea.

cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily as needed for Muscle
spasms.

lithium 300 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and excess of beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric POSTS, vertex
waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.

Occasionally attenuation of amplitude is noted over the left hemisphere.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:





Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces photic
driving, which is higher in amplitude over the right hemisphere.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep 1-hour EEG due to:

1. Occasional but persistently noted attenuation of amplitude over the left hemisphere, seen also
during photic driving



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



This finding was also noted on a routine EEG done in 8/2016, and is an etiologically nonspecific
indicator of left hemispheric dysfunction, structural or physiologic.


Excess beta can be seen in the setting of a medication effect, such as benzodiazepines and/or
barbiturates.
