DATE OF STUDY: 04/13/2016

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: OR 15


EEG TYPE: >8:00 hrs, intraoperative study with one-on-one

physician remote review for total time 4 hours





HISTORY:

a 69 y.o. male with a history of PTE referred


for intraoperative EEG monitor for hypothermia protocol.


MEDICATIONS:


Rocuronium


SEDATION: VERSED ,FENTANYL,ETOMIDATE



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG. the standard operative montage


was utilized.  A 20 minute wake baseline was recorded. Start time




7:37 AM. End time 16:17



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.7

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates


symmetrically with eye opening.  There is generous frontocentral

beta.  The overall awake background is low voltage.



Induction:

Time 9:03 AM:

Induced rhythmic, symmetric slowing and intermittent attenuation


of the background.



INDUCTION OF HYPOTHERMIA:

10:16 AM

The patient was cooled to a target of 19°.  This produced

progressive attenuation of the EEG. As this occurred, right


hemisphere demonstrates a lower voltage than the left.



The EEG reached isoelectric pattern at 11:19.  The patient was

monitored for 5 minutes before the team moved forward with

Thrombectomy under hypothermic conditions.



REWARMING:

Rewarming begins at 1:35.


The EEG gradually transitions from a suppressed pattern to a

pattern with intermittent bursts of theta or delta.

There were some asynchronous bursts noted as the EEG began to

return.  In addition, the previously noted amplitude asymmetry


was seen.  By the end of the recording however, the EEG had

returned to its symmetric pattern.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Sporadic epileptiform activity was identified.  This  was seen

from 10 AM to 1 AM with isolated sharp waves left hemisphere more


than right



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.

Patient went on bypass at 10:20 AM



IMPRESSION and CLINICAL CORRELATION:

EEG monitoring during therapeutic hypothermia demonstrated a


suppressed pattern. The surgical team was informed  when the

pattern became suppressed.  The asymmetries described above can

be seen with asymmetric cooling.  Epileptiform discharges can

occurred during cooling or rewarming as was noted above during


cooling.



Rewarming was associated with reappearance of symmetric cerebral

activity.


