HISTORY:

38 y.o. female with a history of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:


Current Facility-Administered Medications:

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg

potassium chloride IVPB 20 mEq 100 mL





SEDATION: None






TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, POSTS and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Several poorly formed right frontotemporal sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are captured.
Maximal scalp negativity occurs over F8/T8 and F4 leads.  They have broad field over the right
hemisphere.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


Prominent POSTS.


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:

This an abnormal awake and asleep EEG due to:


1. Several right frontotemporal epileptiform discharges



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This finding indicates a potential epileptogenic focus over the right frontotemporal region.
