HISTORY:

65 y.o. female with a history of prior L MCA stroke presenting with acute onset
aphasia and right hemiparesis in the setting of negative perfusion imaging, referred for routine EEG
for management of seizure exacerbation.




MEDICATIONS: Depakote



SEDATION: None listed


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND, EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


The waking background is continuous and asymmetric.





The right hemisphere consists of a fairly organized mixture of alpha and beta, with a reactive
posterior dominant rhythm of 9 Hz.


The left hemisphere consists of high amplitude rhythmic sharply contoured delta with embedded fast
activity at 1 Hz (LRDA+F), without a posterior dominant rhythm.



During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and further
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Suboptimal organization

2. Continuous rhythmic, sharply contoured slowing over the left hemisphere



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are indicative of a focal dysfunction over the left hemisphere, which may be structural
in etiology, but given the clinical history, may alternatively be related to a postictal state.  There is
additional evidence for mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.
Following this study, the patient was connected to long term monitoring.
