HISTORY:

19 y.o. female with a history of TBI (car

accident at age 3), with subsequent seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically challenging record, with


frequent electrode artifact seen over the right temporal




derivations and periods of diffuse muscle artifact obscuring most

leads. The study included a single channel of EKG and photic


stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a

fairly organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies

with excess of theta and delta frequencies. There is no definite


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and further

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.



There is mild generalized slowing.

There is continuous bifrontal polymorphic slowing.

There is frequent right parasagittal polymorphic slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

There are occasional sharp waves (more frequently seen as sharply


contoured slow waves) over the right parietal (P4/C4 max) region.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal Awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing


2. Suboptimal organization

3. Continuous bifrontal polymorphic slowing.


4. Frequent right parasagittal polymorphic slowing

5. Occasional sharp waves (more frequently seen as sharply

contoured slow waves) over the right parietal (P4/C4 max) region



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of


bifrontal and right parasagittal cerebral dysfunction

superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. There is

epileptogenic potential over the right parietal (P4/C4 max)

region.
