HISTORY:

23 y.o. male with a history of LD, childhood epilepsy, recurrent staring spells
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 125 mg EC tablet,

risperiDONE (RISPERDAL) 3 mg tablet,



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation. Patient was poorly cooperative




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of an asymmetric mixture of alpha and beta
frequencies, with an asymmetric and reactive 7-8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), seen best
on the left. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present. Mu is
seen, again best on the left. In wakefulness, excess beta and theta were noted bilaterally.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



Modest  generalized slowing is present.

Subtle focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:




This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1.


2. Subtle R focal slow with disruption of faster frequency on the right.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are frequently found in association with a diffuse CNS Process.  Comparison with
imaging and exam may be helpful in light of the focal features. No seizures or sharp waves seen.


Poor organization and generalized slowing.
