HISTORY:

73 y.o. female with a history of strokes, dementia, now presents with change in
mental status.



MEDICATIONS:

Depakote



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG





EEG BACKGROUND:

There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.




The background is generally sharply contoured.



The background over the right consists of polymorphic occasional 8 Hz theta activity posteriorly, poor
AP gradient and excess polymorphic theta and delta activity.



There is no clear  PDR or AP gradient over the left.



The background over the left consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity with delta
activity most pronounced over the posterior quadrant.




During very brief drowsiness, there is overall improvement in the background: voltages decrease
throughout and theta activity predominates.





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Intermittent sharp waves are captured over the left posterior quadrant (maximal over T5/P3).
Additional, occasional independent bisynchronous  occipitally maximal sharp waves are observed.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Diffuse triphasic-like waveforms are present.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing


2. Focal left hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the posterior quadrant

3. Intermittent epileptiform discharges over left posterior temporal- parietal region

4. occasional epileptiform discharges over the bi-occipital regions


5. Triphasic -like waveforms




CLINICAL CORRELATION:


1. Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild-to-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.


2. continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion over the left posterior quadrant vs
a post-ictal phenomenon/ slowing

3. There are two potentially epileptogenic foci (left posterior temporal- parietal region and bi-
occipital regions).


4. Triphasic waves are a nonspecific EEG finding that can be seen in encephalopathy (mostly
commonly hepatic), uremia, anoxia and many other etiologies.


5.  Improvement in the background appearance during very brief drowsiness sugggests that the above
EEG changes are at least partially related to toxic-metabolic disturbance.
