History:	37 year old woman who presents with new episodes concerning for seizures.
Medications:	no AEDs
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG 
	electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 11Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates 
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over 
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  During brief drowsiness, the alpha 
rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely.
Frequent, often rhythmic, delta activity is captured over the right anterior temporal region.  It is 
especially pronounced during hyperventilation and drowsiness.  Frequent right anterior temporal 
(T2 maximal) moderate amplitude sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are captured.  At times 
they occur at runs with periodicity rate of ~1.5-2 Hz.  There is no evolution.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and accentuates focal 
slowing in the right anterior temporal region.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per 
second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving at multiple flash rates.
Summary of Findings:
	Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, right temporal, anterior
	Focal slowing, rhythmic, frequent, right temporal, anterior
	TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity), intermittent, right temporal, anterior
	Sharp waves, frequent, right temporal, anterior, T2 lead maximal
	Beta, excessive
	No stage 2 sleep
	No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 26-minute EEG due to frequent polymorphic and 
rhythmic (TIRDA) focal slowing over the right anterior temporal region as well as frequent right 
anterior temporal epileptiform discharges. These findings are indicative of a potentially 
epileptogenic focus over the right anterior temporal region.

