HISTORY:

71 y.o. female with a history of trigeminal

neuralgia, presenting with left sided facial twitching (onset:


years ago, has lasted up to a month, occurs on and off throughout

the month, denies LOC or other seizure-like activity). She is

referred for routine EEG to evaluate for the facial twitching.


Patient denies facial twitching at time of test.


MEDICATIONS: carbamazepine



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and




included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10-11

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates


symmetrically with eye opening.



There is abundant eyeblink artifact throughout the recording.

Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 48 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake only  routine EEG.  There are no clinical


or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake only  routine EEG.

A normal record does not rule out a convulsive disorder. If

clinically warranted, a recording with stage II sleep may be

helpful.
