HISTORY:

54 y.o. female who presented with acute

unresponsiveness and was found to have a left facial droop, eye


twitching, and eye/head deviation towards the left. MRI brain

shows a lesion at the right frontal pole. She is referred for

routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS: Keppra



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of mostly low voltage fast


frequencies. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of

frequency and amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep transients are not captured.


Throughout the study, there are continuous sharply contoured


theta waves seen bisynchronously over the frontal pole (Fp2 >

Fp1), with little field elsewhere in the frontal leads (though


they are noted in lower amplitude over F4). They do not clearly

phase reverse on eye leads LOC and ROC, but they do phase reverse

at Fp2 on a circumferential montage. They occur periodically

every 1-2 seconds while the eyes are closed and resolve when the


patient opens her eyes.  At times they have the morphology of

sharp-and-wave discharges.



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY, OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY

(NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


See above under


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional


abnormalities.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION / CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This EEG demonstrates a normal adult waking and drowsy

background.


There are no clinical or electrographic seizures reported or


detected.



The bifrontal sharply contoured theta waves described above raise

the question of whether these represent eye flutter artifact

(they have little field beyond the frontal leads and resolve when

the patient opens her eyes) vs periodic discharges (they do not


clearly phase reverse in the eye leads and do phase reverse over

a region that correlates with her clinical history and with


structural pathology on imaging, and at times have the appearance

of epileptiform discharges).


A follow up study may be of benefit for clarification if


clinically indicated.
