HISTORY:

51 y.o. male with a history of posttraumatic

epilepsy after he fell off a roof 20 years ago.  Recurrent minor


head traumas since then.  Patient cannot state the date of his

most recent seizure referred for routine EEG for characterization

of seizures.  He has ocular headaches and believes that he has a


plate in his head.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet,

lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide (PRINZIDE,ZESTORETIC) 20-12.5 mg


per tablet,

lovastatin (MEVACOR) 40 mg tablet,

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 40 mg capsule,


phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule,





No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: none


TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

55 uVposterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.  Prominent frontal beta is noted in

drowsiness.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.  In this individual with head trauma, there was no

evidence of a breach rhythm.
