HISTORY:

61 y.o. female with a history of olfactory groove meningioma resection 10 years
ago, recent admission for syncope and post syncopal confusion, and an episode of left upper
extremity trembling for 5 minutes, referred for EEG for assessment of mental status change.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


norepinephrine (LEVOPHED) 8 mg/250 mL (32 mcg/mL) in NSS infusion

desmopressin (DDAVP) injection 1 mcg

levothyroxine (SYNTHROID, LEVOTHROID) injection 50 mcg


sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

pantoprazole (PROTONIX) injection 40 mg


heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units

dexamethasone (DECADRON) injection 12 mg

levETIRAacetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB




sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion

piperacillin-tazobactam (ZOSYN) 4.5 g in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB MB+


metroNIDAZOLE (FLAGYL) IVPB 500 mg





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel bedside electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The patient was lethargic, with eyes partially open, intermittently moving head side to side during
the study. Background was diffusely slow and disorganized consisting of a large amount of medium to
high amplitude generalized 1.5-4 Hz activity, at times with an atypical bilaterally synchronous
triphasiform configuration. Occasional low to medium amplitude semirhythmic 5-8 Hz activity was
seen over central scalp areas. Prominent EKG artifact and intermittent muscle and movement artifact
were seen.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No definite pathologic epileptiform discharges were noted.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal drowsy EEG due to:

1. Generalized background slowing and disorganization

2. Occasional atypical anteriorly predominant triphasiform activity.









These findings indicate a generalized disturbance of cerebral activity such as that seen with a variety
of diffuse or multifocal encephalopathies of various possible etiologies. Previously noted
semirhythmic right hemispheric theta activity thought to represent possible subclinical seizure activity
was not apparent in today's record. Left hand twitching previously reported was also not apparent
during this study.
