HISTORY:

71 y.o. male with a history of ETOH dependence, w/d seizures, prior epilepsy,
admitted 10-14 with recurrent syncope with longer than expected LOA, CT demonstrating : large
chronic infarct of the left



cerebellar hemisphere as well as additional small bilateral chronic

cerebellar infarcts. There is a small chronic infarct of the high left

parietal lobe as well as moderate chronic small vessel ischemic


changes of the supratentorial white matter. There is a moderate degree

of generalized parenchymal volume loss referred for routine EEG for screening for subclinical
seizures.


MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 750 mg


ketorolac (TORADOL) injection 15 mg

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg

multivitamin (THERA) tablet 1 tablet




collagenase (SANTYL) ointment 1 Application

piperacillin-tazobactam (ZOSYN) 3.375 g in sodium chloride 0.9 % 50 mL IVPB MB+


vancomycin (VANCOCIN) 750 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 250 mL IVPB MB+

warfarin (COUMADIN) tablet 7.5 mg


SEDATION: None

TECHNIQUE:

A STAT bedside portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using
the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7.8-8.7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  There is
alpha squeak which moves the PDR to 8.7 Hz




During drowsiness, there is slight slowing of the PDR.



Sleep is not captured



Mild  generalized slowing is present.

There are infrequent isolated bursts of left greater than  focal slowing is present in the temporal
regions, with isolated mixed theta/delta.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None

OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None

ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.

HEART RATE: A heart rate of  78bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is a very mildly  abnormal awake only routine EEG  For an adult of this age due to:

1. Intermittent temporal focal slowing, greater than acceptable for a subject of this age



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are frequently found in association with ischemic cerebral vascular disease.  Sleep
was not obtained in this bedside STAT study and activation tests were not possible. Given the history
of recurrent syncope in an anticoagulated patient, consider OP 1 hour or sleep deprived EEG
