HISTORY:

29 y.o. female with a history of intellectual disability and nonepileptic events
and agitation referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS: KEPPRA, CLARITIN, NYSTATIN, VITAMINS



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present. Bilateral symmetric
mu rhythms are seen in relaxed wakefulness.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves.
Features of stage II sleep, including, sleep spindles and K-complexes, are not seen.



No generalized slowing is present.

Occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with fair cooperation and produces
no effect.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:







These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of left temporal cerebral dysfunction, which
can be either structural or physiologic in etiology.


Note that stage II sleep is not captured during this study.

If clinically warranted, a recording with stage II sleep may be helpful.
