START DATE OF STUDY: 04/16/2016 at ~12 pm END DATE OF STUDY: 04/18/2016 at ~ 11 am  RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient EEG TYPE: long term monitoring   HISTORY: a 82 y.o. female with a history of a prior right occipital stroke, now presents with new onset focal seizures.  MEDICATIONS: Keppra, received a phosphenytoin load on 4/17/2016 early am, versed by EMS  SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (04/16/2016, ~12 PM- 4/17/2016, 06:15 AM)  BACKGROUND: There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.    The background over the left consists of unstable ~9-10 Hz alpha activity posteriorly, weak AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient and underriding polymorphic slow delta activity. The background over the right consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity.  Additionally, rhythmic delta activity is noted over the right temporal region (TIRDA).  It becomes less apparent by the end of the recording.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  When patient is awake, there is a large amount of EMG artifact, especially over the sagittal leads - this obscures large portions of the recording.    Sleep is characterized by sleep spindles that are better visualized over the left.    EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  Intermittent right hemispheric sharp waves are captured.  They have a broad field, with maximal scalp negativity over the F8/T2 lead.  They are blunted and improve as the recording progresses.  EVENTS: Intermittent electrographic right hemispheric brief (<40 sec on average) seizures are captured.  Last seizure occurs at ~ 11:25 pm (patient is loaded with phosphenytoin soon after).  They have no clear clinical correlate.   Electrographically, they are characterized by poorly formed rhythmic low to moderate amplitude delta activity over the right hemisphere.  EKG: A single demonstrates heart rate of ~ 60 bpm.  While the patient is loaded with phosphenytoin, there is a gradual decrease in heart rate to <40 bpm (example ~1:47 AM).  By ~ 5 AM, heart rate improves to >50 bpm.  DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal continuous video ~ 18 hour EEG due to mild diffuse slowing; focal right hemispheric slowing (at times rhythmic (TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity)), right hemispheric epileptiform discharges and intermittent right hemispheric seizures that stop after ~ 11:30 pm.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific. There is an epileptogenic structural focus over the right.   Loading with phosphenytoin resulted in gradual decrease in heart rate from ~ 60 bpm to <40 bpm.       -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 2 (4/17/2016, 06:15 am - 4/18/2016, ~11 am)  BACKGROUND: There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.    The background over the left consists of unstable ~10 Hz alpha activity posteriorly, weak AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient and underriding polymorphic slow delta activity. The background over the right consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity.  The background asymmetry becomes less apparent as the recording progresses.    Sleep consists of low amplitude symmetrical sleep spindles and diffuse  Bursts (~0.2 sec) of generalized moderate amplitude delta activity.    No electrographic or cli00nical seizures are captured.  EKG: A single EKG lead captured HR of ~ 60 bpm   DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  This is an abnormal continuous video ~29 hour EEG due to mild diffuse slowing and continuous focal right hemispheric slowing.  The latter improves as the recording progresses.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion over the right and, in this case, represents, at least partially, post-ictal focal slowing (since it improves as the recording progresses).  No electrographic seizures are captured.  
