HISTORY:

51 y.o. male with a history of syncope referred for routine EEG for evaluation of
paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation. Patient was extremely sleepy
throughout EEG.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The brief waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture
of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive low voltage 9 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present. There
is prominent generous beta noted.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. Generous diffuse beta noted.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured. There is some artifact noted at
Cz in this bedside recording. There is also 1-2 bursts of shifting slowing in the central regions.



No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:  Verbal stimuli produces an alerting.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 40-60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG due to:

1. Prominent excess beta



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



Excess beta may be due to patient's medications. The shifting slowing noted in drowsiness is a non
specific finding especially given the artifact noted in the Cz electrode. There are no epileptiform
features.
