HISTORY:

53 y.o. female with a history of seizures,

schizophrenia, delusions, paranoia and preoccupation referred for


routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:  ACETAMINOPHIN, HALDOL,HYDROXYZINE, BENZTROPINE,


KLONOPIN, LAMICTAL, DIPHENHYDRAMINE, LORAZAPAM


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system and utilized a NicOne system. This was

a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel

of EKG.






EEG BACKGROUND:

Most of the record consists of sleep.



During brief periods of wakefulness, the background is


characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric

mixture of mostly beta, with occasional alpha frequencies, with a

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) that is symmetric and consists of

low voltage fast activity. The normal anterior-to-posterior


gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing, with sharply contoured theta and delta

slowing, are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.


During brief periods of wakefulness, frequent right temporal

polymorphic slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Abundant (>1/10s) right fronto-temporal (F8>T4/Fp2/F4)

sharp-and-wave discharges. Frequently these form runs at 2-3 Hz,


with admixed sharply contoured alpha and theta for up to 16

seconds. These discharges do not meet electrographic criteria for


evolution. There is no clear clinical correlate, but the patient

is not tested during them.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Frequent right temporal polymorphic slowing

2. Abundant right frontotemporal sharp-and-wave discharges,


frequently occurring in runs up to 16 seconds without clear

evolution. Note that the patient is not tested during these runs.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of right frontotemporal

highly epileptogenic discharges superimposed on right temporal


dysfunction.


These findings were communicated with the primary team.
