HISTORY:

68 y.o. female with a history of left sided weakness, unsteadiness, jitteriness,
tinnitus, and dizziness, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 800 mg tablet,

aspirin (BAYER ASPIRIN) 325 mg Tablet tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


ketotifen (ZADITOR) 0.025 % (0.035 %) ophthalmic solution, Place 1 drop into both eyes 2 times
daily.
polyvinyl alcohol (LIQUIFILM TEARS) 1.4 % ophthalmic solution, Place 1 drop into both eyes as
needed.
omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 200 mg tablet, Take 4 tablets by mouth every 6 hours as needed.
Indications: Osteoarthritis



SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles
and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

There is frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing.

There is frequent independent right fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) right anterior temporal (F8/T2 max) sharp waves


2. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left anterior temporal (T1>F7/T3 max) sharp waves

3. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left mid temporal (T3>T1>F7 max) sharp waves - rarely synchronous
with #1



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.




EVENTS:




There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing.


2. Frequent independent right fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing

3. Occasional right anterior temporal (F8/T2 max) sharp waves


4. Occasional left anterior temporal (T1>F7/T3 max) sharp waves

5. Occasional left mid temporal (T3>T1>F7 max) sharp waves - rarely synchronous with #1




CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of left anterior and mid temporal, as well as right anterior
temporal epileptogenic potential. There is additional evidence for right fronto-temporal and
independent left temporal cerebral dysfunction, which are etiologically nonspecific.
