HISTORY:

60 y.o. female with a history of loss of

consciousness while driving.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


hydralazine (APRESOLINE) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3

times daily.

simvastatin (ZOCOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth


nightly.

insulin glargine (LANTUS) 100 unit/mL injection, Inject 30 Units

into the skin nightly.


spironolactone (ALDACTONE) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

daily.

lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by


mouth daily.




isosorbide mononitrate (IMDUR) 30 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet

by mouth daily. (Patient taking differently: Take 30 mg by mouth


nightly.)

furosemide (LASIX) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


carvedilol (COREG) 25 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times

daily (with meals).

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

multivitamin capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically


with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes.



Patient very rapidly transitions between wakefulness and sleep.






EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A regular heart rate is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.



Patient very rapidly transitions between wakefulness and sleep -

please correlate with a possible underlying sleep disorder.
