HISTORY:

66 y.o. female with a history of lung and brain neoplasm (known right fronto-
temporal mass), presenting with altered mental status and decreased PO intake with vomiting,
referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.




MEDICATIONS:  DILAUDID, TORADOL in emergency room; currently ordered for LOVENOX,
MORPHINE 3 MG EVERY 4 HRS.



SEDATION: none



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous and reactive but consists of a poorly organized mixture of
alpha, theta, and delta. There is no definite posterior dominant rhythm.




During drowsiness, further background slowing is seen.



Sleep transients are not captured.



Moderate generalized slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Abundant sharply contoured delta activity is noted over the right fronto-temporal region (F8, T4,
F4, with broad distribution over the right hemisphere), frequently periodic at 0.5-1 Hz for < 10
seconds (lateralized periodic discharges) in wake, which become sharp waves in quieter states.


2. Occasional left hemispheric sharp waves with a broad field



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Moderate generalized slowing and poor organization

2. Abundant sharply contoured delta activity over the right fronto-temporal region (F8, T4, F4, with
broad distribution over the right hemisphere), frequently periodic at 0.5-1 Hz for < 10 seconds
(lateralized periodic discharges), becoming sharp waves in quieter states



3. Left hemispheric sharply waves with a broad field


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of right fronto-temporal periodic discharges, which may be a
consequence of this patient's known structural disease (mass) in that region, but may also indicate
peri-ictal/highly epileptogenic state. There is additional evidence for left hemispheric epileptogenic
potentials.



There is etiologically nonspecific evidence for moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.




Neurology consulting team notified of these findings and recommendation given for long term
monitoring.
