HISTORY:

85 y.o. female with a history of R PCA and

L MCA infarcts, with a recent admit for altered mental status,


referred for routine EEG as a follow up study for assessment of

mental status change.



MEDICATIONS: no antiepileptic drugs


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically difficult record, with

frequent periods of diffuse muscle artifact obscuring cerebral


rhythms. The study included a single channel of EKG and photic




stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a


fairly organized symmetric mixture of alpha, beta, and excess

theta and delta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal

anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is


present but suboptimal.



Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.


Mild generalized slowing is present.

Abundant right temporal polymorphic slowing is present.


Very frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing is present, both

synchronous and independent of the right temporal slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal, somewhat technically challenging, awake only

routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Abundant right temporal polymorphic slowing

3. Very frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing, both

synchronous and independent



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of right > left temporal

cerebral dysfunction which may be structural or physiologic in

origin, superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
