HISTORY:

53 y.o. male with a history of memory loss after

a recent TBI.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


metFORMIN (GLUCOPHAGE) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth daily.

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the




International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically


with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.




Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A regular heart rate is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no


clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.



No epileptiform discharges are present, but stage 2 sleep was not


recorded.  If clinically indicated, repeat EEG with sleep

recording may provide additional information.

