HISTORY: a 51 y.o. male with a previous discharge diagnosis of left hemiparesis due to conversion disorder, referred for EEG after he presented with chest pain, shortness of breath, loss of consciousness, shaking, and now left hemiplegia. The patient reports a 10-year history of seizures that involve a heat sensation over his right leg followed by generalized shaking (not reported on previous admission for previously cited hemiparesis), last known occurrence to him 6 mo ago. On exam he demonstrates 0/5 strength on left arm and left leg, with +Hoover sign. There is no facial palsy.   

MEDICATIONS: Patient reports he has not taken any medications x5 days as they were stolen. He reports he is supposed to be taking Dilantin and phenobarbital, as well as suboxone.  

SEDATION: None  

TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   

DAY 1 (4/24/2016, 15:11 - 4/25/2016, 06:00)  

BACKGROUND: The waking background is continuous, symmetric, well-organized, and consists predominantly of alpha with admixed excess of beta frequencies.  Posterior dominant rhythm is present at 10 Hz.  There are no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.  Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, including synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, K complexes, and sleep spindles.  

PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  Occasionally, runs of frontally predominant rhythmic delta, theta, and alpha, lasting for 5-20 seconds, not clearly evolving, are seen out of wakefulness and drowsiness. There is no clear clinical change associated with this. There is no clinical change associated with this activity. The activity is not clearly epileptiform. Patient is not tested during these runs. Appearance most suggestive of eye flutter and/or drowsy pattern.   

EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  None  

EVENTS:  Although there were no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected on this day, an episode during which the patient sits up, moves his left side without difficulty, and gets out bed without assistance is captured on video on 4/25/2016 at 03:03.  

EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 90s  

DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: Normal study. Runs of frontally predominant waveforms are captured as described above; these are not clearly epileptiform nor do they clearly evolve and are felt most consistent with drowsiness and/or eye flutter. Note that patient is observed moving his left side on video during this day.     

-----------------------------------------------------------------  

DAY 2 (4/25/2016, 06:00 - 4/25/2016, 16:13)  

BACKGROUND: No change  

GENERALIZED SLOWING: None  

FOCAL SLOWING: None  

PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  Similar to that reported on day 1, there are occasional runs of frontally predominant rhythmic delta/theta/alpha. Again, activity is not clearly epileptiform. Patient is not tested during these runs.  

SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None  

EVENTS:  Although there were no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected on this day, an episode during which the patient lifts his left arm antigravity, then sits up and gets out of bed without assistance is captured on video on 4/25/2016 at 06:53.  

EKG: A single EKG lead captured a heart rate in the 70s   

DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  No change from day 1. Again, patient observed moving his left side on video during this day.       

-----------------------------------------------------------------  

FINAL IMPRESSION:  This is video EEG notable for:  1. Excess of beta frequencies 2. Occasional runs of frontally predominant rhythmic delta and/or theta, lasting for 5-20 seconds, not clearly evolving, and not clearly epileptiform. 3. Movement of left arm and leg captured on video   

FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Excess beta frequencies can be seen in the setting of a medication effect such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates. The occasional runs of frontally predominant rhythmic delta and/or theta were not clearly epileptiform and were not associated with a clinical change; however, patient was not tested during them. They appeared to be most consistent with an eye flutter artifact or drowsy pattern. If clinically indicated, repeat monitoring with clinical testing could be obtained for further clarification. Background EEG demonstrates normal wakefulness and normal sleep. Patient incidentally noted to be moving his left arm and leg on video. 
