HISTORY: 51 y.o. male undergoing left carotid subclavian bypass.  The intraoperative monitoring performed during the procedure.  MEDICATIONS: No current facility-administered medications for this visit.  No current outpatient prescriptions on file. Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits: Hydromorphone (DILAUDID) injection 0.5 mg ondansetron (PF) (ZOFRAN) injection 4 mg dextrose 5 % and sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion Hydromorphone (DILAUDID) 1 mg/mL PCA infusion 50 mL   And naloxone (NARCAN) injection 0.4 mg cefazolin (ANCEF) 2 g in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units aspirin chewable tablet 81 mg hydralazine (APRESOLINE) injection 10 mg albuterol (PROVENTIL HFA;VENTOLIN HFA) inhaler 2 puff amitriptyline (ELAVIL) tablet 25 mg carvedilol (COREG) tablet 12.5 mg Nifedipine (PROCARDIA) capsule 30 mg    SEDATION: fentanyl, isoflurane, Propofol during the procedure  TECHNIQUE: A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.  EEG BACKGROUND: The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 12 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.   During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.   Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.   Once patient is intubated, the background consists of a mixture of frequencies and is symmetric.  Clamping occurs at 11:24:07 AM.  There is no appreciable change in the background.  The artery is unclamped at 11:41:41 AM without appreciable change in the background.    EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: No epileptiform activity is present.  EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  HEART RATE: A heart rate in the 50s bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  IMPRESSION: This is an unremarkable nearly 3.5 hour EEG performed intraoperatively.  I monitored the patient remotely during the critical portions of the procedure.       
