HISTORY:

21 y.o. female with a history of two TC seizures, rare myoclonus of the legs,
positive family history of epilepsy referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

LOMEDIA 24 FE 1 mg-20 mcg (24)/75 mg (4) Tablet,



norethindrone-ethinyl estradiol (FEMHRT 1/5) 1-5 mg-mcg Tablet, Take  by mouth daily.

She has been out of seizure medicine for about 2 weeks



TECHNIQUE:

An awake and asleep requested  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was
recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system.
This was a technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV  and photic
stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.7 Hertz 70 uV posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.



We were unable to obtain sleep.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Produces a small amount of slowing



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake only  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or
detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.  This is the second
normal EEG for this adult.  In that she has had recurrent seizures without epileptiform activity,
consideration for a one-hour sleep deprived EEG is suggested.  This could be performed closer to her
University  At one of our affiliate sites
