HISTORY: 51 y.o. Female referred for EEG monitoring during pulmonary endarterectomy procedure.  MEDICATIONS / SEDATION: Fentanyl, Ketamine, Rocuronium, Isoflurane   TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded in the operating room (OR) using the International 10-20 system and utilized a NicOne system.  This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.  A technician was available in the OR throughout the study.  The use of sedative medications was documented by the technician, in communication with the anesthetist, throughout the study.  The neurophysiologist reviewed the study offsite in real time, 1:1, for 365 minutes.  EEG BACKGROUND: The study begins with a waking background that is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.   Incision occurs at 08:45. Heparin is administered at 09:00. Cooling begins at 09:16, cardiac arrest at 09:16.  With anesthesia and cooling the background progressively becomes slower, consisting of a disorganized mixture of alpha, then theta and delta frequencies, decreasing in amplitude. As the study progresses the background becomes intermittently attenuated, then it becomes symmetrically suppressed.  Complete suppression occurs at 10:19. This was communicated to the team.  Circulatory arrest occurs at 10:36.  Rewarming begins at 11:44.  During re-warming, the background slowly becomes more continuous and consists of mainly diffuse symmetric theta and delta activity, with some shifting of attenuated faster frequencies occurring equally over both right and left hemispheres. As the patient is further rewarmed, the background becomes a more consistently symmetric mixture of theta and delta, with admixed alpha. The study is terminated when the patient reaches a temperature of 35 C.  No focal slowing is present.   EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: No epileptiform activity is present.  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events, other than as documented above, captured during this study.  HEART RATE: A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead by the end of the study.  IMPRESSION: No seizures were seen.  CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an uneventful intraoperative 365-minute EEG during cardiopulmonary surgery with hypothermia. All changes were communicated to the primary team. 
