HISTORY:

53 y.o. male with a history of cavernous malformation, recurrent
convulsions,referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

MAPAP EXTRA STRENGTH 500 mg tablet, take 1 tablets by mouth every 4 to 6 hours

metoclopramide (REGLAN) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth as needed.


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

PEG 3350-Electrolytes (GOLYTELY) 227.1-21.5-6.36 gram Powder in Packet, Follow the instructions
provided by your doctor. Please call (215) 707-9950 if you need help completing this prep.


phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, 300 mg daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.






SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HVand photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. Patient is drowsy for much of the record
with slowing of the alpha rhythm.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


In light sleep, simple, medium amplitude left temporal sharp waves with morphology of BETS are
noted. However, they can occur in pairs. As patient transitions to deeper sleep, high amplitude F7
spike and slow wave discharge is seen.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


Questionable 14 & 6


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: elicits scant theta



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG due to:

1. Left temporal sharp waves and spikes.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are frequently found in association with localization related epilepsy.
