HISTORY:
38 y.o. male with a history of schizophrenia, OSA, now to be evaluted
for recent seizure referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.  Poor historian



MEDICATIONS:

Depakote


TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.  The patient had a great deal
of hair gel, but the tech was able to record an acceptable study.  He also appeared to be drowsy, but
never reached stage II sleep





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a low voltage mixture of alpha and a
moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.
Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.3 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR),
which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.   There is a small amout of 7 Hz theta.  The record
is slightly disorganized.






During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  There is prominent beta and
intermittent wicket.




Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Wicket, bilateral.  Very little.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:      Photic Stimulation:  Elicits driving



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 108 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a midlylabnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.


1. Mild excess theta and mildly disorganized pattern

CLINICAL CORRELATION:


There were no epileptiform features.  The slowing may be correlated with clinical history.  This
routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
