HISTORY:

24 y.o. male with a history of  Childhood epilepsy, most recent 5 min TC seizure
9 days ago, recently moved to Philadelphia for heroin withdrawal program referred for routine EEG
for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet,

temazepam (RESTORIL) 15 mg capsule,



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:




A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. There is prominent frontocentral beta




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. POSTS.  Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Wicket


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: elicits increase in amplitude.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 75 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.  Generous beta and wicket are normal findings.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. Generous beta may be
related to medicines.
