HISTORY:

66 y.o. male with a history of Localization related epilepsy due to prior Left
parietal lobar hemorrhage who presented with seizure, now with right hemiparesis referred for routine
EEG for management of seizure exacerbation.




MEDICATIONS: DILANTIN ER 300 q12h (level 11), KEPPRA 1000 q12h - inc to 1500 q12h and
1500 mg load, 2MG OF ATIVAN @ 1:42PM



SEDATION: as above



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous but asymmetric.




The right hemisphere consists of disorganized alpha, beta, and theta.

There is attenuation of faster frequencies over the left hemisphere with a mix of delta and scant beta.


There is no posterior dominant rhythm or clear reactivity.



Severe generalized slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Near continuous left anterior temporal (F7/T1/T3 max) sharp-and-slow waves present at 1 Hz, with
reflection across the left parasagittal and right hemisphere (PLEDS / lateralized periodic discharges /
LPDs)




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal asleep only routine EEG due to:


1. Severe generalized slowing, disorganization, lack of clear reactivity

2. Attenuation of faster frequencies over the left hemisphere

3. Near continuous left anterior temporal sharp-and-slow waves present at 1 Hz



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of left anterior temporal highly epileptogenic discharges
superimposed on left hemispheric dysfunction and a severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which may
be related in part to sedating medications.



These findings were communicated to the primary team, and the recommendation to continue on
long term monitoring were provided.
