HISTORY:

57 y.o. female who presented 12/23 with syncope, found to be profoundly acidotic
(pH 6.9 and lactate 17), with transaminitis and liver cirrhosis with fulminant hepatic failure and DIC.
On admission had CT with acute right temporal and basal ganglia strokes.  She was witnessed today
having mouth twitching around 9 am that was intermittent and has lasted for hours. She was also
observed to have left arm rhythmic contractions by our EEG tech. She is referred for routine EEG for
evaluation of paroxysmal events.





MEDICATIONS: Fentanyl, Ativan this AM. Given Vecuronium 10 mg during this study



SEDATION: see above



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND, EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY, EVENTS:



The record opens at 11:08 to a background that is continuous but consists of disorganized delta with
superimposed theta. There is no posterior dominant rhythm.



At 11:09 there is onset of ~12 Hz spikey alpha over the right fronto-central region (F4/C4 max) that
slows in frequency to theta, then delta frequency, then spreads throughout bilateral parasagittal
regions. At this point there is superimposed twitch artifact on the left, which subsequently generalizes
by 11:09.




On video review, the camera is positioned on patient's right side. By 11:09 the patient's left arm is
visibly shaking, then elevates and flexes at the elbow, then develops clonic jerking. Head turns
towards left, then neck and left arm/trunk continue to have clonic jerking. By 11:10 the clonic jerking
generalizes.



EKG lead is obscured by movement artifact.



At 11:18 the team administers vecuronium 10 mg. Clinical convulsion (and accompanying
electrographic muscle artifact) ceases but underlying diffuse spike/polyspike-wave persists on EEG,
more prominently over the left fronto-temporal region, by 11:20.  By 11:22 this ictal activity spreads
diffusely.  By 11:28 ictal activity again settles over the left hemisphere.  By 11:30 spikes become
lower amplitude, less frequent, and self-resolve.




At this point the background consists of diffusely attenuated theta and delta.



There is severe diffuse slowing.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 132 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal bedside portable EEG due to:

1. Severe diffuse slowing


2. Prolonged electroclinical seizure that originates in the right fronto-central region, which
secondarily generalizes



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are diagnostic for focal status epilepticus of right fronto-central origin.

There is additional evidence for a severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.
Tachycardia is noted on a single EKG lead.







These findings were discussed with the primary team.  The neurology consult team was notified and
a stat evaluation was requested.  A preliminary recommendation to administer ativan was given.
The patient was continued on long term monitoring.
