HISTORY:

25 y.o. female with a history of previous seizures, with none for 5 years, now with
episodes of spinning, vomiting, headache and palpitations on awakening from sleep, referred for
routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:






A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background consists symmetric and reactive 11-13 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Low amplitude anteriorly predominant beta
activity was seen. A large amount of muscle and eye blink artifact was seen throughout the recording.




During very brief periods of drowsiness, attenuation of muscle and eye blink artifact and low
amplitude symmetric frontocentral theta activity were seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 80 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:






This is a normal awake and drowsy one hour EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
