HISTORY:

48 y.o. male with a history of medically refractory epilepsy.  Last
reported seizure occurred in the last 24-hour.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

VITAMIN D 1,000 unit Tablet,

PHENYTOIN SODIUM EXTENDED (DILANTIN PO), Take  by mouth.


levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1.5 tablets by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:



A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Intermittent polymorphic theta activity is captured over the right anterior temporal quadrant.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Multifocal epileptiform discharges are captured during drowsiness and sleep.



Occasional left anterior temporal sharps (F7/T1 max)\, occasional bisynchronous temporal spikes with
aftergoing slow wave (T3/T5 and T4/T6 max), occasional-frequent bisynchronous prefrontal sharps
(Fp1 and Fp2 max) and frequent right anterior temporal (Fp2, F4 <<F8 max).




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with fair cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 48 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Intermittent mild-to-moderate right anterior temporal slowing

2. Multifocal epileptiform discharges.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Intermittent focal slowing is suggestive of a focal structural lesion over the right anterior quadrant.


There are multiple potentially epileptogenic foci over the right and left hemispheres (predominantly
anterior quadrant and bitemporal regions).
