HISTORY:

44 y.o. female with a history of alcohol dependence and drug use.  She states that her
most recent seizure was 9 days ago, associated with alcohol withdrawal.  5 seizures recently, referred
for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


oxazepam (SERAX) 10 mg capsule, take 1 capsule by mouth three times a day acyclovir (ZOVIRAX)

Fentanyl, Zoloft

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  challenging
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is obscured by diffuse muscle artifact.  When the muscle drops out, there is
symmetric, reactive pattern which consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal
beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a
symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically
with eye opening.  During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of
the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:      Hyperventilation: Does not activate the record



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a limited but otherwise normal  routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. Given the degree of
muscle artifact, if epilepsy is an important consideration, please repeat the study when the patient is
able to cooperate and the muscle jitteriness has resolved.
