HISTORY:

47 y.o. female with a history of intractable seizures beginning in childhood, now
occurring twice per week, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures. In addition, there
is a questionable history of previous stroke.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1.5 tablets by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.

levothyroxine (SYNTHROID, LEVOTHROID), Ferrous Sulfate (SLOW FE), folic acid (FOLVITE),
aspirin 81 mg, docusate sodium, thiamine (VITAMIN B-1), Calcium Carbonate-Vit D3, FERROUS
FUMARATE (IRON PO)




No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None




TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of 25 uV reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR), slightly better developed on the left. Low voltage 20-30 Hz activity was seen
anteriorly. Moderate amounts of frontal temporal muscle artifact and frontal eye movement artifact
were seen. Intermittent right mid to anterior temporal slowing was seen





During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) sharp waves and spikes were seen in the right temporal region at F8-T4.


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
minimal photic driving at 13-17 Hz, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic seizures captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 70 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild asymmetric alpha activity, slightly better developed on the left.


2. Intermittent right mid to anterior temporal slowing.

3. Frequent right anterior temporal paroxysmal spikes and sharp waves.






CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of an area of cortical irritability in the right mid to anterior
temporal region. In a patient with clinical history of seizures, the above abnormalities would suggest
possible localization related seizures originating in the right temporal region. Clinical correlation is
recommended.
