HISTORY:

45 y.o. female with a history of I.D. And refractory epilepsy, no longer has brief
tonic seizures but tremor spells,  referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


She claps after a seizure

MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

pioglitazone-metformin (ACTOPLUS MET) 15-850 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times
daily (with meals).


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 100 mg tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth 3 times daily.

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take  by mouth 4 times daily.


lamotrigine (LAMICTAL) 200 mg tablet, Take 200 mg by mouth 4 times daily.

carbamazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 400 mg 12 hr tablet, Take 400 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth. 2am 1 pm 2hs


carbamazepine (TEGRETOL) 200 mg tablet, Take 200 mg by mouth nightly.

ranitidine (ZANTAC) 150 mg tablet, Take 150 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

docusate sodium (STOOL SOFTENER) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 2 times daily.




haloperidol (HALDOL) 2 mg tablet, Take before MRI

TECHNIQUE:


A  1 hour  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well symmetric low voltage mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, without well defined a symmetric and reactive posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is  scant.  It is
basically a low voltage fast pattern with intermittent central theta




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by  symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and frequent slow spike and wave
complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



intermittent generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) in sleep slow spike and wave and polyspike wave, sometimes with a bit
more GPTA on the left, but fairly symmetric




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Photic Stimulation: elicits lambda



EVENTS:

There was one clinical  event captured during this study.

10:25 AM- hand clapping seen with theta background, no ictal change. Same theta seen at other
times without the behavior


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Slow spike and wave/ polyspike wave in sleep


2. Replacement of normal background with low voltage beta pattern



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Supports a secondarily generalized process

These findings are similar to prior study 9-30-15. The behavior is not a seizure.

