HISTORY:

33 y.o. male with a history of GSW thoracic spine (2002), post-traumatic
seizures (TBI due to ATV crash, 2003) with 4 seizures since 2009, referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures. Patient denied recent seizures/events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


phenytoin (DILANTIN) 125 mg/5 mL suspension, Take  by mouth.

phenytoin (DILANTIN EXTENDED) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 2 capsules by mouth 2 times daily.
Indications: COMPLEX-PARTIAL EPILEPSY


Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

XARELTO 20 mg Tablet,



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation. Tech notes right centro-temporal skull
defect.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized mixture of alpha and
beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The
normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but suboptimal.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


Continuous right fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing is present, with superimposed high amplitude
fast activity, likely breach rhythm.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
occasional left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed
during stage II sleep, does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.





IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Suboptimal organization


2. Continuous right fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing

3. Right fronto-temporal breach rhythm

4. Occasional left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing, elicited by hyperventilation



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of right fronto-temporal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in
etiology, with additional evidence for left fronto-temporal cerebral dysfunction (structural or
physiologic in etiology) and mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


A right fronto-temporal breach rhythm is consistent with this patient's known history of a skull defect.

These findings are similar to those of prior EEGs performed in 2013 and 2014, with the addition of
occasional left fronto-temporal dysfunction in the current study.
