HISTORY:

23 y.o. male with a history of new onset black out spells referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

divalproex (DEPAKOTE DR) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. Take two tablets
tonight, then 1 twice a day


TECHNIQUE:

A   1 hour Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11.7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.






During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): none



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Hyperventilation: The patient was falling asleep during hyperventilation.  No pathological features
were noted



Photic Stimulation: Driving response was elicited at faster flash frequencies



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. This patient was very
sleepy


