DATE OF STUDY: 06/21/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy




HISTORY:

a 32 y.o. female with a history of seizures since about 24 years old, referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures and management of seizure exacerbation.



MEDICATIONS: Keppra 1500 mg q12h


S/p load of fosphenytoin


SEDATION: Ativan 2 mg IV



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


6/21/2016 at 09:36

CLINICAL: the patient is lying quietly in bed with eyes closed. She opens her eyes, blinks a few
times, then turns onto her left side and stiffens her body, arching her back. There are some
superimposed irregular jerks.


EEG: there are no EEG changes, other than movement artifact. An awake background with a
sustained posterior dominant rhythm is seen intermittently. There is no postictal attenuation or
asymmetry of background rhythms.


EKG: heart rate increases from baseline 78 bpm to ictal 96 bpm



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 50 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an essentially normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG. An episode of body stiffening with back
arching has no EEG correlate and is most consistent with a nonepileptic behavioral event.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:




This is an essentially normal awake and drowsy routine EEG. An episode of body stiffening with back
arching has no EEG correlate and is most consistent with a nonepileptic behavioral event.


A normal routine EEG does not support or exclude the diagnosis of epilepsy.



Attending Epileptologist: 

I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.


