HISTORY:

52 y.o. male needs a Neurology appt. due to being out of medication. Pt has a
seizure history and a hisotry of alcoholism. Last seizure was 1 month ago.


MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


docusate sodium (STOOL SOFTENER) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

ENSURE ORIGINAL Liquid, Take 237 mLs by mouth 3 times daily (with meals).

multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


pantoprazole (PROTONIX) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:



A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system  with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Wicket are noted.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
