HISTORY:

74 y.o. Man p/w feeling of heaviness in his legs that started 2 days ago.


PMHx: epidural hematoma in 2010 then Sz began. none since he was started on medications, HTN


MEDICATIONS:


Current Facility-Administered Medications:

enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 40 mg


aspirin chewable tablet 81 mg

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL) tablet 200 mg

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL) tablet 400 mg


calcium-vitamin D 500 mg(1,250mg) -200 unit per tablet 1 tablet

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically limited record due
to almost continuous muscle artifact and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

A posterior dominant rhythm that at best reached 7Hz was present. Background activity was
characterized by disorganized diffuse delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior
to posterior gradient of frequencies.




Sleep is not captured


Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left anterior temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 48 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



1. Intermittent left anterior temporal focal slow waves

2. Mild to moderate diffuse slow waves





CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal awake only limited routine EEG due to intermittent focal slowing in the left
anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically non-specific. In addition there is diffuse background slowing and slow alpha rhythm.
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.


Please note again that this was a limited study and if concern for epileptiform activity remain a
repeat EEG with sedation may be beneficial.
