HISTORY:

66 y.o. L handed male with a history of seizures (R sided twitching -> whole
body shaking, then confusion), L ACA stroke 5/2016, L cerebral peduncle stroke, pacemaker, referred
for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.





MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours for 360 days.

aspirin 81 mg chewable tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth at bedtime for 360 days.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:






A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha, theta, and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7-8 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves.
Features of stage II sleep and slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Continuous left frontal polymorphic slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead. Pacemaker artifact noted.


IMPRESSION:




This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing


2. Continuous left frontal polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of left frontal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology,
superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
