HISTORY:

23 y.o. right handed male with a history of

seizures, the last reported one was 2-3 months ago, here for a


follow up routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 300 mg by mouth 2

times daily.


albuterol (VENTOLIN HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2

puffs into the lungs every 6 hours as needed.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the




International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


There was occasional mild excess of polymorphic theta and delta

frequencies. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of


frequency and amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180


seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric

background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild

diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
