HISTORY:

48 y.o. male with a history of daily dizziness and 1 episode of LOC from sleep in
4/2016, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily for 14 days.

Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Ointment, apply to affected area 2 times daily


Alcohol Swabs (ALCOHOL PREP SWABS) Pads, Medicated, Apply 1 Part topically 2 times daily.

diabetic testing strips Misc, Use as Directed

glipizide (GLUCOTROL) 5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily (before meals).


metformin (GLUCOPHAGE) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).

lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

fenofibrate (TRICOR) 145 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically suboptimal study
due to abundant O1 and T6 lead artifact. The study included a single channel of EKG and photic
stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and
produces no clear background changes, but note that this procedure is done during a time of
relatively continuous electrode artifact.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal, technically limited as above, awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical
or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal, technically limited, awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
