HISTORY:

42 y.o. male with a history of MI 2008 s/p 2 stents followed by syncopal attacks x3-
4 months that at first resolved; however, in 2012 had 3 MI, s/p CABG, and syncopal events began
again; last event 2 days ago, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS: Lipitor, Plavix, Metoprolol, ASA, Imdur



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:








The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During very brief periods of drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant
rhythm is seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and very briefly drowsy routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and very briefly drowsy routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.



If clinically warranted, a recording with sleep may be helpful.
