DATE OF STUDY: 04/29/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 40-60 min, awake and drowsy





HISTORY:

a 40 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


escitalopram oxalate (LEXAPRO) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

oxcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 600 mg tablet, Take 600 mg in am and 900 mg in pm



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.

Frequent bitemporal independent sharply contoured temporal slowing is present. At times this
slowing appears quasi-rhythmic.



Note that there is diffuse EKG artifact throughout the record.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) right fronto-temporal (F8/T2 max, with field extending to Fp2/F4) sharp-
and-wave discharges


Occasional (>1/hour to <1/min) left fronto-temporal (F7/T1 max, with field extending to Fp1)
spike/sharp-and-wave discharges



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 102 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.






IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  1-hour EEG due to:


1. Frequent bitemporal independent sharply contoured temporal slowing, which at times appears
quasi-rhythmic


2. Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) right fronto-temporal (F8/T2 max, with field extending to Fp2/F4)
sharp-and-wave discharges

3. Occasional (>1/hour to <1/min) left fronto-temporal (F7/T1 max, with field extending to Fp1)
spike/sharp-and-wave discharges




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of right > left fronto-temporal epileptogenic discharges
superimposed on bitemporal independent cerebral dysfunction.


Note that prior prolonged EEGs demonstrated left > right epileptogenic discharges.














































