HISTORY:

26 y.o. male with a history of nocturnal


seizures referred for routine EEG for characterization of

seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Keppra




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically




satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and

photic stimulation.  Significant head rocking artifact was noted



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of

somewhat disorganized background.  There is a symmetric mixture

of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10.7

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal


anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is

present.  In addition to the head rocking artifact, there may be


some underlying slowing in the occipital regions


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen. POSTs were seen



Sleep is not captured


No other generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. mild background slowing and disorganization



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are nonspecific and support a mile, bihemispheric

disturbance of cerebral function.  No epileptiform features were


identified.  No previous EEGs were available for comparison at

this time
