HISTORY:

69 y.o. female with a hx of stroke at the age of 22, encephalitis and seizures. Pt is
SZ free, Although she did have an episode of falling out od a recliner while sleeping. ? SZ



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 400 mg 12 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

metoprolol tartrate (LOPRESSOR) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


bumetanide (BUMEX) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth daily.

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.


apixaban (ELIQUIS) 2.5 mg Tablet, Take  by mouth 2 times daily.

diazepam (VALIUM) 2 mg tablet, Take one if you have that electrical sensation in your left Arm,



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically limited record T4
and T6 may have been placed closely causing an attenuated signal and included a single channel
of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




Diffuse, frontally predominant 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right posterior temporal region with an
associated increased amplitude and faster frequencies consistent with a breach.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent right posterior temporal sharp waves


Single left anterior temporal sharp wave.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:



1. Frequent right posterior temporal sharp waves


2. Single left anterior temporal sharp wave

3. Continuous focal slowing in the right posterior temporal region and breach

4. Excess beta




CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep 1 Hr EEG. The frequent right posterior temporal sharp wave
and focal slow waves are indicative of an epileptogenic focus and structural dysfunction in that
region. The single left anterior temporal sharp wave is of unclear significance. Lastly the excessive
beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.
No seizures were seen.
