HISTORY:

51 y.o. female with a history of DM, HTN, panic attacks, and asthma,
presenting after a seizure last Tuesday per her husband. The patient had one other seizure while
pregnant 35 years ago. Now referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS: ambien, fioricet, metformin, albuterol




SEDATION: none



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha, beta, and excess of theta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is
present but suboptimal.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric POSTS, sleep
spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization





CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
