HISTORY:

This is a 34 y.o. right handed male admitted for continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG)
monitoring with a history of: refractory epilepsy.


He has a history of childhood, febrile convulsions persisting beyond the age of 6, a family history of a
relative with febrile convulsion.  He has had long-term video EEG monitoring at several other
centers across the world, with variable results.




Seizures variably described as staring, loss of awareness.  He has been noted to have involuntary
movements of the left arm without EEG correlate. Others with head turning to left followed by
automatic behavior climbing out of the bed, foot shaking, and inability to recall  code word


Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Evaluation of paroxysmal events.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:






- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;


- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient’s exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case.  Impedances were measured and verified to be
below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to
computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest
and reviewed in detail.





Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.






The  spike and seizure detection computer program was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.
Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as
selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS:

Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits:


clobazam (ONFI) tablet 20 mg

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) capsule 200 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


CBZ 1700 mg




SEDATION:  None



DAY 1 (10/05/2016- 10/6/2016, 06:00)



BACKGROUND:


The waking background is  continuous,  symmetric,  well-organized, and consists predominantly of
Alpha with admixed beta and mild excess theta. Frequent eye blink was seen.



Posterior dominant rhythm was present.


The background is  reactive,  variable.



There were  no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.



Sleep was characterized by  symmetric sleep spindles and/or K-complexes.


PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): Occasional wicket waves are noted during
drowsiness over the temporal regions.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:Occasional (1/hour to <1min)



1. Primarily in drowsiness, there are isolated, frontally predominant spike and wave complexes of 4
Hz.  These are variable and may maximal in the left or right frontal region or bifrontal


2. Bursts of 10-15 Hz activity seen primarily in stage 2 sleep, of 2-3 seconds duration,

3. Bursts 12-24 Hz activity approx 3 seconds duration, stage 3 sleep


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: none

EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events were reported or detected.



DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Abnormal due to the presence of generalized epileptiform activity which is faster than is commonly
noted as well as excessive background theta.  No clinical seizures were noted



-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY2 (Oct 6, 2016 06:00 - 10/7/2016, 06:00)

BP 111/71  Pulse 73  Wt 86.6 kg (191 lb)  BMI (P) 30.16 kg/m2





Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits:

•  clobazam (ONFI) tablet 20 mg, 20 mg, Oral, BID,, MD, 20 mg at 10/06/16 1818


•  zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) capsule 200 mg, 200 mg, Oral, BID, MD, 200 mg at
10/06/16 1818


Tech note: Bad Cz electrode

BACKGROUND: No change



GENERALIZED SLOWING: No chang

FOCAL SLOWING: No change

PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):



SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Primarily in drowsiness, there are isolated, frontally predominant spike and wave complexes of 4
Hz.  These are variable and may maximal in the left or right frontal region or bifrontal


2. Bursts of 10-15 Hz activity seen primarily in stage 2 sleep, of 2-3 seconds duration,

3. Bursts 12-24 Hz activity approx 3 seconds duration, stage 3 sleep


4. In wakefulness, despite Cz artifact there is a midline burst of 5-7 Hz activity, clearly defined at Pz,
bursts less than 2 seconds


EVENTS:

1. Aura like event after 2 PM- patient was off monitor, even not captured. Patient was described by
staff as staring.


2. Seizure 5:19 PM- patient tells tech he felt like seizure coming on.  Normal EEG during the
symptoms, but 5 Hz activity afterwards, 2 seconds duration.

3.Seizure 09:22 PM- the patient is in the bathroom.  He says he is in the shower.  Four family
members wait outside the close door.  The family is talking but it's hard to tell if they're talking to the
patient. The door remains closed and the conversation continues.



EEG: poorly localized 23 second seizure.  There is high amplitude paroxysmal 6 Hz activity in the
frontal regions with then more evolution in the left frontal region.  The epileptiform activity seems to
wax and wane a little bit. Bifrontal poly spikes were seen, as were some at Pz. EEG then returns to
baseline. Background delta is noted 10 seconds after the abrupt end of the seizures. Cz artrifact.



4. Seizure 09:23:59 patient remains in the bathroom with family discussing something outside the
door quite avidly. The patient comes out of the bathroom at 09:28:33 to state that he feels a seizure
coming on and is asking for help to push the button. At this time, the seizure is over. The PCA noted
that the patient could not speak.


He pushes the button at 09:29:17.


EEG: 09:23:59 Rhythmic frontal 6 Hz activity is followed bu midline spikes, and then 7 seconds later
by frontal polyspikes and fast activity. There is also Pz spiking later in the seizure. There is little post
ictal change in the EEG. 10 seconds later there are intermittent bursts of delta, not sustained.  Brief
bursts of 7 Hz midline spikes are seen. The patient remains confused for some time afterwards. The
observers who worked with the patient noted that he could not speak after the event.



EKG: A single EKG lead captured 78 BPM




DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION

Electrographic seizures were identified.  Unfortunately, the patient was in the bathroom during the
seizures.  These seemed to be generalized bursts.  There is little postictal slowing but then
generalized background slowing is seen later when the patient is confused.  This pattern would be
unusual for a genetic, idiopathic generalized epilepsy.





Of note, the patient didn't exactly know when he had the seizure.  He thought the seizure was about
to happen when it had already occurred.


-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY  3 (10/7/2016, 06:00 - 10/8/2016, 06:00)


Meds: Depakote was added.

BACKGROUND: No major  change  Alpha (PDR) is 7 Hz.



GENERALIZED SLOWING: mild


FOCAL SLOWING: None



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): There are brief burst of 7 Hz activity in
wakefulness, which disappears in slceep



SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Less later on the 7th


1. Primarily in drowsiness/ sleep isolated, frontally predominant spike and wave complexes of 4-7 Hz.
These are variable and may maximal in the left or right frontal region or bifrontal

2. Bursts of 10-15 Hz activity seen primarily in stage 2 sleep, of 2-3 seconds duration,


3. Bursts 12-24 Hz activity approx 3 seconds duration, stage 3 sleep

4. In sleep  there is a midline burst of 5-7 Hz activity, clearly defined at  Cz Pz, bursts less than 2
seconds.


5. Midline polyspikes in sleep

6. 3-4 Hz spike and wave wake 8:58 AM



EVENTS:

Seizure (?)  Oct 7, 4:10- duration unclear  PM patient is awake, sitting in bed.  His head drops forward
into the left, he then extends his right leg.  He has prolonged poor responsiveness, the nurse comes
in and notes that he can answers questions but slowly.


EEG: Initially during this event, there is no clear EEG change, the background remains somewhat
slow as is his baseline.  At 4:11:05, he continues to sit with his head slumped forward and his left arm
shaking.  There is no definitive ictal pattern but the EEG is somewhat slower than it had been. By
4:20 the patient resumed eating, but is intermittently confused





5:00 PM Confused- 3 Min 19 seconds, no clear EEG change.

PBs: many 8 PM to 9 PM for vomiting, or feeling unwell. Parents in the room. EEG unchanged,
patient responsive.


EKG: A single EKG lead captured   50-90 BPM




DAY 3 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION


No additional seizures with clear EEG correlate, but ongoing epileptiform discharges in sleep.

The behavioral event has some lateralizing features and some EEG changes.



-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 4 (10/9/2016, 06:00 - 10/10/2016, 14:00)

BP 111/71  Pulse 73  Wt 86.6 kg (191 lb)  BMI (P) 30.16 kg/m2



Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits:

•  divalproex (DEPAKOTE SPRINKLES) capsule 375 mg, 375 mg, Oral, Q12H SCH, 
MD
•  ondansetron (PF) (ZOFRAN) injection 4 mg, 4 mg, Intravenous, Q6H PRN, , MD, 4
mg at 10/09/16 0930


•  clobazam (ONFI) tablet 20 mg, 20 mg, Oral, BID,  MD, 20 mg at 10/09/16 1730

•  zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) capsule 200 mg, 200 mg, Oral, BID,MD, 200 mg at
10/09/16 1730




BACKGROUND: None

GENERALIZED SLOWING: None

FOCAL SLOWING: None



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): in sleep, paroxysmal 7 Hz activity was noted



SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

There is less epileptiform activity which includes

1. Generalized spike and wave discharges, maximal at midline


2. Bursts of paroxysmal fast activity- seen in sleep, often 10-20 Hz

3. 7 Hz repetitive activity

4. Bursts of Polyspike or fast activity or spiky theta less than 5 seconds in sleep




EVENTS: multiple pushbuttons for nausea and other complaints of feeling unwell without EEG
change.
EKG: A single EKG lead captured 60 BPM



DAY 4 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION


No additional seizures.  Multiple pushbuttons for medication related nausea and other somatic
complaints during which the patient was interactive.

This study continues to show prominent epileptiform activity and sleep but was most bursts less than 3
seconds in duration.  The epileptiform activity is somewhat unusual in that it comprises bursts of
remarkably fast activity.




SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:


Interictal Findings:

There are many different epileptiform discharges noted in this record but all are features of a
generalized epilepsy including:


Spike and wave activity

Polyspike activity

Bursts of paroxysmal 7 Hz, 10 Hz and 20 Hz activity noted in sleep


Slow background, with slow alpha rhythm.

Ictal Findings:

The patient had 2 clinical events while hooked up to continuous video EEG monitoring in the
epilepsy monitoring unit.  However he was in the bathroom for both events


SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:

1.  Generalized seizures.


2. Events with left arm tremor of unclear significance.  The event is much more prolonged than one
would expect to see in the seizure.  There didn't seem to be some slowing noted later in the event
that there was no clear epileptiform signature.



EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS and management plan :


1.Generalized epilepsy, unusual in nature. Consideration for a secondary generalized process vs
genetic process (channelopathy) should be investigated.  The patient states that he feels that his
epilepsy does better with carbamazepine, unusual if this was an inherited generalized process.This
patient received a Depakote load and sustain high levels of Depakote tell the dose was adjusted
downward.



CONCLUSION: Medically refractory epilepsy, potentially genetic versus secondary generalized
process.
Additionally, unusual behavioral spell involv ing shaking of the left arm without definitive EEG
signature, as has been previously reported by others.




Patient  Will follow-up at the Temple Epilepsy Center as an outpatient.

