HISTORY:

51 y.o. female with a history of seizures (suspected complex partial as well as
convulsions) referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily (per
tech she has not yet started this)




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically difficult record
due to abundant electrode artifact affecting predominantly the left hemispheric leads as well as O2
(tech notes patient has braids). The study included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:






The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal, technically limited, awake and drowsy 1 hour EEG.  There are no clinical or
electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy 1 hour EEG.




A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
