HISTORY:

47 y.o. female with a history of now 4 episodes of loss of awareness. Some
have features of nonepileptic events (tears running down face), but a prior outside EEG did show
irritable features. More recent episode concerning for true epileptic seizure. Now referred for 1-hour
EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levothyroxine (SYNTHROID) 112 mcg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

Carboxymethylcellulose Sodium (REFRESH TEARS) 0.5 % Drops, Use 1 drop in both eyes 2-4 x day.


multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

calcium carbonate (OYSCO-500) 500 mg calcium (1,250 mg) Tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 3
times a day


calcitRIOL (ROCALTROL) 0.5 mcg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




The patient easily transitions into drowsiness and sleep.  During drowsiness, slow rolling eye
movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured. Of note, the patient falls into
REM sleep at the end of the study.



No generalized slowing is present.


Occasional sharply left temporal polymorphic slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed
during stage I sleep, does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:




There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep 1-hour EEG due to:

1. Occasional sharply left temporal polymorphic slowing


2. Presence of REM sleep during a 1-hour EEG



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of left temporal cerebral dysfunction, structural
or physiologic in etiology.


The presence of REM sleep during a 1-hour EEG is an abnormal finding that may be seen in the
setting of sleep deprivation or may be seen in the setting of a primary sleep disorder. Clinical
correlation is advised.
