DATE OF STUDY: 06/29/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 40-60 min, awake and asleep





HISTORY:

a 26 y.o. female with a history of recurrent episodes of facial and arm weakness,
referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Albuterol, multivitamins


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9-10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) stereotypic discharges were seen in the right frontocentral region during
wakefulness and drowsiness, beginning with low voltage rhythmic 7 Hz activity, gradually increasing
in amplitude and decreasing in frequency to 3-4 Hz and then subsiding, following which several
seconds of increased irregular right hemispheric slowing was intermixed with background activity.
These discharges lasted 7-9 seconds and were not associated with any clinical signs or changes in
behavior.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Recurrent episodes of rhythmic right frontocentral slowing. The stereotypic nature of these
discharges and pattern of gradual increase in amplitude and reduction in frequency suggests that
these discharges may represent subclinical ictal rhythmic theta.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:




These findings indicate the presence of a functional abnormality and possible brief focal subclinical
seizures in the right frontocentral region. Clinical correlation and further neurologic investigation are
recommended.





Attending Epileptologist: 


I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.





































































