DATE OF STUDY: 05/12/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy





HISTORY:

a 50 y.o. male with a long hospital course, presented with severe hyperglycemia,
multiple medical and psychiatric conditions.  He now is extubated, poorly responsive with repetitive
grimacing, spontaneous purposeful movements and self protective movements but not interactive
referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.




MEDICATIONS:



SEDATION:  Methadone, Haldol, Klonopin no recent opioids


TECHNIQUE:


A  bedside portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal/tactile stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:









The background is markedly abnormal for an apparently adult male.  There is a continuous pattern
with mixed frequency activity.  There are some sections of the record with rhythmic triangular-shaped
frontal 4 Hz activity.  There is clear variability and some sections are richer in alpha and theta
frequency activity.  A drowsy pattern has more rhythmic frontal slowing.  Stimulation of the patient
produces an alerting with eye opening and more of a theta frequency background with an anterior
posterior gradient noted on occasion.




Generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Occasional triphasic waves



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: See above

EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. generalized background slowing

2. occasional triphasic waves



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are frequently found in association with toxic metabolic encephalopathy.  Although
the patient does not appear to be interactive with the examiner, there is clear reactivity noted in the
EEG and when stimulated, and more awake pattern was elicited.  In comparison to previous study,
this EEG shows significant improvement in the overall background


