CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 64-year-old well woman of unknown

handedness, status post  hemorrhagic stroke


with craniectomy and EVD:  right frontal subdural

hematoma, left frontal ventriculostomy, pneumocele, large

intra-axial right frontal hematoma with vasogenic edema and


shift

of 11 mm.     ICH on August 24th



MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Reglan, Lipitor, phenytoin, mannitol, and

hydralazine.




INTRODUCTION:  24 hour digital video EEG was performed at

bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode

placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient was relatively


somnolent throughout the EEG.






DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  This is a markedly abnormal pattern


within intra-hemispheric asymmetry.  From the right hemisphere,

the EEG is medium amplitude with a mixture of theta and smaller


amounts of beta frequency activity.  It is somewhat slower in

the

right frontal central region and there is clear attenuation of

faster activity in the right frontal central region.  The left


hemisphere demonstrates a higher amplitude pattern, congruent

with the breach rhythm.



Sleep/Wake cycles: The overall background is markedly slower in

sleep.



Tactile stimulation by the nursing staff clearly produces an

arousal with an increase in muscle and an increase in faster


frequency activity

Epileptiform discharges: There are sharply contoured slowing.  In

addition to the breach rhythm, there is a T1/F7 phase reversal

and occasional left mid to anterior temporal sharp waves and


some

FP1 and F7 as well.



Seizures: no definitive seizures.


Heart rate:  110.




IMPRESSION:  Markedly abnormal 24-hour video k EEG due to:


1. A slower pattern noted on the right with right frontal

slowing.

2. Sharply contoured slowing with sharp waves noted in the left

frontal and temporal regions.


3. Absence of the normal morphologies of wakefulness and sleep




CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No seizures were recorded.  This EEG

supports a bihemispheric disturbance of cerebral function,


congruent with neuroimaging.  There are sharp waves in this

record, present on the left.  This suggests a potential for


seizures

