HISTORY:

This is a 61 y.o. right handed female admitted for continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG)
monitoring with a history of: refractory epilepsy. Assistant notes that she has spells when she hums
and then forgets what she was going to say or do. These have not previously been recognized as a
seizure.



Her typical seizure occurs monthly.  Her sister-in-law states that she stiffens, retro-pulses and has tonic
activity.  The sister-in-law does not describe typical temporal lobe seizures.


Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Characterization of seizures.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;


- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient’s exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service




CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:


A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case.  Impedances were measured and verified to be
below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to
computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest
and reviewed in detail.





Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.   A neurologist was available in person or on
call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a registered nurse
with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a technician was not
available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and nursing performed
seizure testing and electrode maintenance.





The  spike and seizure detection computer program was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.
Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as
selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


phenobarbital (LUMINAL) 16.2 mg tablet, Take 3 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.

levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.

multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 500 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days.


SEDATION:  None



DAY 1 (10/13/2016 - 10/14/2016, 06:00)



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized slightly asymmetric
mixture of  Theta, alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 6.5-8.3 Hertz posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is
present. Mu of 6.5 Hz was seen at C3, no testing could be performed.



As the recording continues there is a sustained interictal pattern with a theta background, slower on
the right.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.





Sleep: Vertex waves



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Intermittent left temporal  focal slowing is present, characterized by disruption of faster frequency
activity and mixed irregular theta/ delta. There is also a second pattern of R sided focal slowing
noted in wakefulness in the sections without spikes.


In the transition to sleep R focal slowing is seen


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) T1/T3> T5 in wakefulness, often occurring in bursts

R temporal discharges


Of note, there are extended periods in wakefulness without spikes.

OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



EVENTS:

1. Brief bursts of L temporal spikes of 12 second duration, without clear clinical change


2. 16:49 Push button- wake pattern,no spikes

3. 19:49 Push button- wake pattern,no spikes

4. 4:14 AM- family thinks she might have hummed.  EEG at this time- not spiking. Sister in law could
not find the button.


DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:


No seizures, markedly abnormal background, but more sustained periods without spikes




-----------------------------------------------------------------


Day 2 (- 10/14/2016 to 10/15/16, 06:00)


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.



Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits:

  [START ON 10/15/2016] PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) tablet 15 mg, 15 mg, Oral, BID, 


  levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 2,000 mg, 2,000 mg, Oral, BID,  2,000 mg
at 10/14/16 1803

divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 24 hr tablet 1,000 mg, 1,000 mg, Oral, Q12H, 
1,000 mg at 10/14/16 1230


BP 117/68  Pulse 69  Ht 4' 11




BACKGROUND: No change


GENERALIZED SLOWING: No change

FOCAL SLOWING: No change


PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) Left temporal sharps and spikes
in brief bursts, trains


R temporal discharges- sharp waves, often in pairs T2 F8

EVENTS: None



EKG: A single EKG lead captured 70 BPM




DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION

Limited by loss of electrode integrity but no clinical events. Background with fewer spikes







-----------------------------------------------------------------

DAY 3 (- 10/15/2016- 10/16/16, 06:00)

BP 117/68  Pulse 69  Ht 1.499 m (4' 11



BACKGROUND: No change

GENERALIZED SLOWING: No change, improved


FOCAL SLOWING: less marked

PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None

SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Abundant (>1/10s) Left >R but more sustained periods
without spikes


See the last section of 12:47 AM- prolonged burst R temporal spikes, in sleep

EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected



EKG: A single EKG lead captured  HR 60-70



DAY 3 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION

No seizures, prominent spiking is reduced.




One prolonged burst from the right out of sleep



-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY4 ( 10/16/2016, 06:00)

BP 117/68  Pulse 69  Ht 4' 11

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily., Disp: 120 tablet,
Rfl: 6


  multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily., Disp: , Rfl:


  PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) 15 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 10 days., Disp:
20 tablet, Rfl: 0

  divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 500 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days., Disp:
30 tablet, Rfl: 11




BACKGROUND: No change

GENERALIZED SLOWING: No change

FOCAL SLOWING: No change


PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None

SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Abundant (>1/10s)  Bursts left or R temporal spikes- these
can be seen in trains lasting up to 10 seconds without clinical correlate


EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.


EKG: A single EKG lead captured 72 BPM



DAY 4 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION



Overall background with fewer spikes, more sustained sections with nearly normal background.





SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:

Interictal Findings:


Prominent bursts of right or left temporal spikes noted most prominently in the early part of the EEG
monitoring session.









On the day of admission, the technologist that the patient had a seizure in the EEG lab.  This might
have explained why there was more epileptiform activity early on in the session.  Reduction of the
patient's phenobarbital dose seemed to produce an improvement in the overall background,
although the patient's blood levels were relatively stable.



Ictal Findings:

The patient had  no definite clinical events while hooked up to continuous video EEG monitoring in
the epilepsy monitoring unit.  The family thought there might have been one event out of sleep with
the EEG at that time was without epileptiform activity




SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:

1.  Medically refractory epilepsy with temporal localization



EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:

1.Medically refractory epilepsy with temporal localization, bitemporal features



CONCLUSION:

The patient was admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 4 days with continuous video EEG.
This was an EMU monitoring session because of crescendo seizures and the possibility of presurgical
evaluation




The interictal EEG is characterized by XX. Diffuse background slowing is a non specific indicator of
moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Focal slowing in the XX indicates a focal structural lesion in
that region. Frequent XX epileptiform discharges indicate a potentially epileptogenic focus in that
region.

This patient  will be presented at surgical conference to discuss the next best steps and treatment of
her medically refractory epilepsy
