HISTORY:

64 y.o. female with a history of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Topamax




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10-10.5

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening. Fast alpha variant is captured.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.


Very brief sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients,

with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes.



Occasional polymorphic theta and delta activity is captured over

the left temporal region.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180


seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric

background slowing.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

No epileptiform discharges


Sleep stage II- very brief

Focal slowing - occasional - mild-to-moderate - left temporal



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and briefly asleep 22-minute EEG due to

occasional mild-to-moderate focal left temporal slowing.


This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which

is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.



The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not

rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.
