 HISTORY: 86 y.o. female with a history of biparietal CVA last year, DM, admitted with recurrent episode eye deviation on prolonged, persistent oral dyskinesias.  CT with chronic gliosis and acute L SDH referred for  STATEEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.  MEDICATIONS: Current Facility-Administered Medications: labetalol (NORMODYNE,TRANDATE) injection 10 mg Current Outpatient Prescriptions: levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 250 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily. aspirin 81 mg chewable tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily. metFORMIN (GLUCOPHAGE) 500 mg tablet, Take 1,000 mg by mouth 2 times daily (with meals). lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 2.5 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily. SEDATION: none reported  TECHNIQUE: A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and stimulation. Patient has continuous chew  Movements, has repetitive eye movements and head movements but is interactive during the EEG  EEG BACKGROUND: The waking background is characterized by the presence of a lot of muscle on the right, and a poorly organized symmetric mixture of theta more than alpha and beta frequencies, with an symmetric but reactive 6-7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) on the left, On the left the  normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude can be seen. The right hemisphere lacks the PDR and has significantly more delta  Drowsiness is not sustained Sleep is not captured  Moderate to marked generalized slowing is present.   Superimposed R focal slowing is present.   EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Beneath the artifact, there are sharply contoured transients noted at P3 and T5.  These are sporadic and do not evolve  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: When the patient is consoled, the EEG is more of a symmetric, mixed frequency background.   EVENTS: There are no electrographic events captured during this study.  HEART RATE: A heart rate of 120 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal awake only STAT EEG due to: 1. Slow and disorganized background 2. Superimposed R focal slowing. 3. Sharply contoured transients, noted from the left posterior quadrant, discernable under the artifact. 4. Repetitive behaviors sustained during the EEG without EEG change. It appears that the chewing did stop when the technologist interacted with the patient, but unfortunately, the video for that interaction is obscured.   CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings may be correlated with imaging and clinical features.  There is right >L focal slowing, but sharply contoured discharges are present on the left.  
