HISTORY:

37 y.o. female with a history of gunshot wound

to the right side of her head, status postcraniotomy, bilateral


scalp edema referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental

status change. Imaging demonstrates: extensive edema throughout

the right


cerebral hemisphere with stable external herniation of brain

through the large right-sided craniotomy. The left frontal

approach


ventriculostomy catheter is stable in position with tip at

foramen of

. Stable mild dilation of left lateral ventricle. The right


lateral ventricle is smaller in size and stable. Small

pneumocephalus

at left lateral ventricle frontal horn, likely due to


manipulation of the ventriculostomy catheter. Stable left




posterior parietal extra-axial thin collection. Stable minimal

leftward midline shift.Stable numerous skull fractures



MEDICATIONS:


VECURONIUM DRIP, KEPPRA, DILANTIN, HEPARIN, BISACODYL


SEDATION: FENTANYL DRIP,VERSED STOPPED 5 AM



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG. the technologist noted the

cranial defects described above as well as extensive scalp edema



EEG BACKGROUND: The background is markedly abnormal.  The


cerebral activity from the right hemisphere and at the midline is

nearly completely suppressed.  The overall pattern is low-voltage

and featureless.



From the left, there is a  Continuous mixed frequency cerebral

pattern with theta and alpha frequency activity as well as


arrhythmic delta.  Sharply contoured delta is noted with phase

reversal in the left mid to frontotemporal region.  Tactile

stimulation produces theta from the left hemisphere



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: EVENTS: Tactile stimulation produces theta

from the left hemisphere


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:This is a markedly abnormal bedside portable EEG:

1. Marked suppression of cerebral activity from the right

hemisphere

2. Slow but reactive pattern noted on the left


3. Sharply contoured delta noted from the left

There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or


detected.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

In comparison to previous continuous video EEG monitoring on


December 28, 2015, the left hemisphere demonstrates an

improvement with more theta frequency activity and clear


reactivity.  The right hemisphere continues to demonstrate marked

slowing.  However, the cranial abnormalities and scalp edema  can

blunt cerebral activity.  If clinically indicated a repeat study

when the scalp edema resolves can be performed
