
START DATE OF STUDY: 04/29/16 at 16:11

END DATE OF STUDY: 05/01/16 at 12:50



RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: 

EEG TYPE: Long term recording






HISTORY:

a 36 y.o. male admitted for continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG) monitoring
with a history of: paroxysmal events of unclear etiology.




Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Evaluation of paroxysmal events.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;






- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient’s exam


(9) there have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is
not a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Additionally, T1, F9, T9, P9, T2, F10, T10, and P10 electrodes were placed in this patient.
Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case.  Impedances were measured and verified to be
below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to
computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest
and reviewed in detail.






Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For approximately 8 hours each day the
patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in person or on call 24
hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a registered nurse with
special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a technician was not
available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and nursing performed
seizure testing and electrode maintenance.





The Gotman spike and seizure detection computer program (trademark named "Stellate") was used
to screen the EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG
were recorded periodically.  Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events
and detections, as well as selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.


escitalopram oxalate (LEXAPRO) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) 2 mg tablet, Take 2 mg by mouth 2 times daily as needed for Anxiety.

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 600 mg by mouth 3 times daily.

tiotropium (SPIRIVA) 18 mcg inhalation capsule, Inhale 18 mcg into the lungs daily.


oxyCODONE (ROXICODONE) 5 mg immediate release tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth every 4 hours as
needed for Pain.


OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 150 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.






SEDATION: None



DAY 1 (4/29/2016, 16:11 - 4/30/2016, 06:00)



BACKGROUND:


The waking background is continuous, symmetric, well-organized, and consists predominantly of low
voltage fast frequencies.



Posterior dominant rhythm consisted of low voltage fast frequencies.



The background is reactive and variable.



There were no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.


Sleep was characterized by synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles and K-complexes.



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Runs of theta activity, sharply contoured at times, seen over the central regions.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None present



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


(1) DATE AND TIME:   4/29/2016 at 18:20

EVENT TYPE: Event of unclear etiology

CLINICAL: Patient lying in bed, reaches for event button, pushes it, tells nurse he had an event. He is
able to answer nursing protocol questions/follow commands. Patient reports that he feels nauseas,
dizzy, then shakes.



EEG: No EEG changes from background were seen during the event

DURATION: unclear

POSTICTAL CHANGES:  none


EKG: no change


(2) DATE AND TIME:   4/29/2016 at 19:26


EVENT TYPE: Non-epileptic event


CLINICAL: lying in bed, begins to shake both hands/arms asynchronously. During this, he pushes
button. Patient reports he is dizzy. He does not answer questions at first, but within seconds follows
commands bilaterally.


EEG: No EEG changes from background were seen during the event


DURATION: 3 min 12 sec

POSTICTAL CHANGES:  none

EKG: no change



(3) DATE AND TIME:   4/29/2016 at 19:30

EVENT TYPE: Psychogenic non-epileptic seizure


CLINICAL: Patient lying in bed with eyes closed, begins to shake head from side to side. Then stops
shaking head and has asynchronous tremulous movements of hands/arms (at times more on the left).
Eyes remain closed. Does not answer nurse or follow commands. After about 18 minutes his hands
stop shaking but he does not open eyes or respond to nurse. By 21 minutes he follows commands
bilaterally but keeps eyes closed. Patient reports that he feels nauseas, dizzy, then shakes.



EEG: No EEG changes from background were seen during the event. The midline central theta
rhythm persists and fluctuates in amplitude without evolution in frequency or spread at 19:31.


DURATION: 24 min 8 sec

POSTICTAL CHANGES:  none


EKG: no change





DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal video EEG. A background consisting of low voltage fast frequencies can be a normal
variant in the adult population.


Excess beta activity can be seen in the setting of a medication effect (i.e., benzodiazepines or
barbiturates).


Runs of midline theta may represent a benign variant.

The episodes described above are most likely nonepileptic behavioral events (no EEG changes,
semiology consistent with behavioral events).





-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 2 (4/30/2016, 06:00 - 5/1/2016, 06:00)


AEDs: Stopped OXC





INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: no change



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Runs of theta activity, sharply contoured at times, seen over the central regions.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.




SEIZURES/EVENTS:

(1) DATE AND TIME:   4/30/2016 at 08:01


EVENT TYPE: Psychogenic non-epileptic seizure

CLINICAL: Patient lying in bed, turns and reaches for event button. Takes him just under 2 minutes to
find and push the button. He pushes it, positions himself back to lying down, and has asynchronous
low amplitude tremulous movements of hands/wrists (at times L>R), with eyes closed. At one point he
adjusts his gown with left hand. At 204 seconds, PCA enters and calls his name - he does not
respond. Eyes remain closed. He does not answer or follow commands. Does not react to noxious
stimuli. Tremulous movements of wrists/hands continue asynchronously, asymmetrically, in waxing
and waning fashion. At 512 seconds MD enters, checks pupils, tone. Patient does not respond or
follow commands; eyes remain closed. Patient opens eyes at end of episode.





EEG: No EEG changes from background were seen during the event

DURATION: ~16 min 13 sec


POSTICTAL CHANGES:  none

EKG: no change



(2) DATE AND TIME:   4/30/2016 at 13:10

EVENT TYPE: Psychogenic non-epileptic seizure

CLINICAL: PCA in room adjusting blankets. He puts his left hand on forehead and closes eyes. Says
something to PCA who pushes button (13:11). Patient blinks eyes. RN enters - patent attends to her
and answers, but responses inaudible. Appears to nod appropriately to instructions. Staff leaves. By
13:16, patietn begins having asynchronous waxing-waning hand/wrist movements as noted in prior
events. PCA enters and pushes button (13:17). He does not clearly respond to PCA, but eyes are
open and he blinks. RN enters and examines patient. He does not follow simple commands.   He
does not respond to nail bed pressure in R finger. Stops shaking hands and appears more responsive
at 13:22. Tech notes patient claims he feels faint (like he was going to "drop out"), has hand shaking.





EEG: No EEG changes from background were seen during the event. Note there is T2 electrode
artifact during this time patient shakes hands.


DURATION: ~13 min 41 sec



POSTICTAL CHANGES:  none

EKG: no change





EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s.



DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:


Normal study as on Day 1.

The episodes described above are most likely nonepileptic behavioral events (no EEG changes,
semiology consistent with behavioral events).







-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 3 (5/1/2016, 06:00 - 5/1/2016, 12:50)


AEDs: off OXC



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: No change



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Runs of midline theta as on prior days



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


SEIZURES/EVENTS:


(1) DATE AND TIME:   5/1/2016 at 12:01

EVENT TYPE: Psychogenic non-epileptic seizure










CLINICAL: similar to prior episodes - lying in bed awake, eyes closed, reaches for and pushes event
button. RN examines at 96 seconds. He does not respond to verbal or noxious stimulation and does
not follow commands. Patient has whole body tremors and eye fluttering and intermittent side-to-side
head tremors, visible on video review as fine amplitude movements of waxing-waning quality. About
470 seconds into event, the movements of the arms increase in amplitude - there is intermittent
flexion-extension movement every second that is synchronous, but not rhythmic, and intermittently
asynchronous, then synchronous again. Eyes remain closed. 100 seconds later he is rubbing his fists
on his thighs. These movements gradually resolve into fine arm tremors, then patient eventually
responds to nurse calling him. Does not remember the code word.





EEG: No EEG changes from background, other than movement/electrode artifact, were seen during
the event


DURATION: ~12 min 2 sec


POSTICTAL CHANGES:  none

EKG: HR increases to 120s



EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s.


DAY 3 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:


Normal study as on Days 1-2.

The episodes described above are most likely nonepileptic behavioral events (no EEG changes,
semiology consistent with behavioral events).










-----------------------------------------------------------------


SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:



INTERICTAL FINDINGS:  The patient’s interictal findings showed a background consisting of low
voltage fast frequencies, without any focal findings or epileptiform discharges.



Runs of midline theta were captured in wakefulness and drowsiness, likely a benign variant (central
midline theta).



ICTAL FINDINGS:


The patient had multiple prolonged events consisting of waxing and waning tremulous activity of the
hands/wrists with unresponsiveness, associated with feeling faint.  His eyes often remained closed
throughout the events.  There was no ictal EEG correlate.




SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:


1. Nonepileptic behavioral events



CONCLUSION:

 was admitted to the  for 2.5 days with continuous video EEG.
This was an elective monitoring session for characterization of paroxysmal episodes.



The interictal EEG is remarkable only for runs of central theta, likely a benign variant.



The patient was weaned off Oxcarbazepine over the course of his admission and discharged home
without it after his typical habitual event was confirmed to be nonepileptic behavioral events.



Patient will follow-up with as an outpatient.


