HISTORY:

73 y.o. female with a history of prior episodes of epilepsy partialis continua
referred for routine EEG for management of seizure exacerbation.


This time: h/o epilepsia partialis continua, 2 prior hemorrhagic strokes, paroxysmal A-fib,
hypertension and hypothyroidism presented with left arm weakness and abnormal movements which
started 1 day PTA. Her daughter, who lives with the patient said that the night prior they were getting
ready to go ot bed when she noticed that her mother's left arm slump[ed down and turned to her side
with on an off back and forth movements.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg

LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units

divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 24 hr tablet 750 mg

PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) tablet 60 mg


PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) tablet 45 mg


lacosamide (VIMPAT) 200 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB

TECHNIQUE:


A bedside portable  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal  Stimulation.  The
patient is awake but confused.  She does follow some commands.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is markedly abnormal and asymmetric.  The left hemisphere is moderately
slow but there is a glimpse of a 5-6 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  The primary frequencies and left
hemispheric theta with small amounts of delta.  The right hemisphere demonstrated substantial
attenuation of faster frequency activity with a high amplitude periodic complex, greater than 100 uV
in amplitude.  This demonstrates some variability but is typically maximal at P4, sometimes T6 or
O2.



Right  focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: High amplitude periodic complexes in the right posterior quadrant as
described above



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Auditory and tactile stimulation of the patient don't seem to change
the underlying pattern



EVENTS:


There are no clinical  events captured during this study that resemble the events that the daughter
described.


On occasion, some of the periodic complexes demonstrate some frequency evolution over 10-14
seconds but typical periodicity is greater than one second and often 1-2 seconds in duration



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal STAT EEG due to:

1.  Essentially continuous high amplitude periodic complexes in the right posterior quadrant but with
slow periodicity


2.  Markedly disruption of faster frequency activity in the right hemisphere

3.  Moderate slowing on the left





CLINICAL CORRELATION:



The video was reviewed.  The patient does not appear to be having the clinical features described
by the family.  The overall pattern is one of a markedly irritative process, congruent with recurrent
epilepsy partialis continua in the nondominant hemisphere.  Patient is able to answer questions but
is a bit confused during the study.  Continuous EEG monitoring will follow
