HISTORY:

61 y.o. female with a history of epilepsy since age 9, with auras of "something
about to happen" but no other seizures, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

mycophenolate (CELLCEPT) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

alendronate (FOSAMAX) 70 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 7 days for 360 days. No food or
other medications for 30 minutes.


gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3 times daily for 360 days.
Start at 1 BID, increase to TID as tolerated


lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.


predniSONE (DELTASONE) 20 mg tablet, Take 40mg once a day (two 20mg pills)

hydroxychloroquine (PLAQUENIL) 200 mg tablet, Take 200 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

colchicine (COLCRYS) 0.6 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


furosemide (LASIX) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every other day.


pantoprazole (PROTONIX) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

metoprolol (TOPROL-XL) 50 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth daily.


ferrous sulfate 325 mg (65 mg iron) tablet, Take 325 mg by mouth daily (with breakfast).

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 250 mg tablet, Take 4 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.


zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, 1 at bed for 2 weeks, then 2 at bed


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

1. Occasional runs of rhythmic theta activity are noted over the left temporal region, consistent with a
benign variant (rhythmic temporal theta bursts of drowsiness)




ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.






Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed in
sleep, does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep 1 hour EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep 1 hour EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
