HISTORY:

42 y.o. female with a history of complex partial seizures referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours.

lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3 times daily.


olanzapine (ZYPREXA) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth nightly.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

carbamazepine (TEGRETOL) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with fragments of a symmetric and reactive ~10 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Frequent left temporal slowing is present. Occasionally this focal slowing is rhythmic at 2-3 Hz for runs
<3 seconds (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity, or TIRDA).



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Occasional left frontal (Fp1 max, with broad field) sharp waves

2. Occasional left fronto-temporal (F7/T1 max) sharp-and-wave, becoming frequent in sleep

3. Rare independent right fronto-temporal (F8/T2>T4 max) sharply contoured theta, not clearly
epileptiform. In one instance a right fronto-temporal sharp wave occurs <200 msec after a left fronto-
temporal sharp wave.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with poor cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep 1-hr EEG due to:

1. Frequent left temporal slowing

2. Occasional rhythmic left temporal slowing (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity, or TIRDA)

3. Occasional left frontal (Fp1 max, with broad field) sharp waves


4. Occasional left fronto-temporal (F7/T1 max) sharp-and-wave, becoming frequent in sleep

5. Rare independent right fronto-temporal (F8/T2>T4 max) sharply contoured theta, not clearly
epileptiform. In one instance a right fronto-temporal sharp wave occurs <200 msec after a left fronto-
temporal sharp wave.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left fronto-temporal and left frontal epileptogenic discharges,
with possible independent epileptogenic potential of right fronto-temporal origin.


There is additional evidence for left temporal cerebral dysfunction.
