HISTORY:

22 y.o. female with a history of recent diagnosis of epilepsy referred for routine
EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL) 100 mg chewable tablet, Take 200 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

IFEREX 150 150 mg iron capsule,



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Alpha squeak is noted.  The EEG amplitude is higher on
the right side in comparison to the left





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes.  POSTS. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

In the initial sections of the record, there is a single burst of frontally predominant 4-5 Hz spike and
wave activity.  This spike and wave discharges are very synchronous and rhythmic but, there is a burst
of theta that precedes it. Total duration > 2 seconds.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Elicits  a small amount of slowing



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG.


1. brief burst of frontally predominant 4-5 Hz spike and wave activity without  Clinical correlate

CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is abnormal routine EEG.  Multiple previous studies were performed with carbamazepine.
Carbamazepine can accentuate spike and wave activity
