HISTORY:

32 y.o. male with a history of post-traumatic epilepsy (hit on head with bat in 2008,
resulting in multicompartmental intracranial hemorrhage, s/p b/l craniectomies and cranioplasties),
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS: levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically suboptimal record
as electrode placement, particularly over posterior head regions, was impeded by patient's
dreadlocks. The study included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:






The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing with increased beta are seen.



Sleep is characterized by sleep transients, including vertex waves and K complexes with spindles,
that are best seen over the left hemisphere.



No generalized slowing is present.

Abundant right fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing is present.


Abundant left temporal polymorphic slowing, both synchronous and independent, is present.

At times waveforms are higher in amplitude and more sharply contoured over the right parasagittal
region (C4) than left, likely a breach rhythm.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 48 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Abundant right fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing



2. Abundant left temporal polymorphic slowing, both synchronous and independent

3. At times waveforms are higher in amplitude and more sharply contoured over the right parasagittal
region (C4) than left, likely a breach rhythm.


4. Sleep transients seen better over the left hemisphere.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence independent left temporal/left hemispheric and right fronto-
temporal cerebral dysfunction. These findings are consistent with the patient's prior history of
multifocal intracranial hemorrhage.


A breach rhythm is consistent with this patient's known history of craniotomy.

Bradycardia is noted on single EKG lead.
