HISTORY:

63 y.o. male with a history of GSW and seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1,000 mg by mouth 2


times daily.

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth 3 times

daily.


phenytoin (DILANTIN) 200 mg ER capsule, Take 200 mg by mouth 3

times daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically


with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Brief sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


Intermittent polymorphic subtle theta activity is noted over the

right temporal region.  It becomes more prominent during


drowsiness/ sleep.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional


abnormalities.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


Focal slowing - intermittent - mild- right temporal

No epileptiform discharges


Sleep stage II - brief



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal awake and briefly asleep 24-minute EEG due to

mild intermittent focal right temporal slowing.


This finding is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this

region.


The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not


rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.
