HISTORY:

44 y.o. female with a history of neurosis, first ever seizures this morning, now
poorly responsive referred for routine EEG for treatment of status epilepticus.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Facility-Administered Medications:

albuterol (PROVENTIL) 2.5 mg/0.5 mL nebulizer solution

acetylcysteine (MUCOMYST) 200 mg/mL (20 %) solution


ertapenem (INVanz) 1 g in sodium chloride 0.9 % 50 mL IVPB

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 1,200 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 50 mL IVPB

levETIRAacetam (KEPPRA) 4,000 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB- just starting during
EEG

acetylcysteine (MUCOMYST) 200 mg/mL (20 %) solution

albuterol (PROVENTIL) 2.5 mg /3 mL (0.083 %) nebulizer solution

lactulose retention enema


spironolactone (ALDACTONE) tablet 100 mg

haloperidol lactate (HALDOL) injection 2 mg



furosemide (LASIX) injection 40 mg

magnesium oxide (MAG-OX) tablet 400 mg


acetylcysteine (MUCOMYST) 20 % 1 mL plus albuterol 2.5 mg/3 mL nebulizer mixture solution

enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg


QUEtiapine (SEROQUEL) tablet 25 mg

chlorhexidine (PERIDEX) 0.12 % solution 15 mL

insulin lispro (HumaLOG) injection 4 Units

nicotine (NICODERM CQ) patch 21 mg


ondansetron (PF) (ZOFRAN) injection 4 mg

pantoprazole (PROTONIX) injection 40 mg


propranolol (INDERAL) tablet 10 mg

TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and verbal/tactile stimulation.  The patient is in an ICU,
somnolent with a trach.  She is tachypnea, eyes open, staring to the right.  There is some head
nodding. Previous left gaze deviation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The overall background is markedly slow with a mixed frequency pattern with delta beta and theta.
Superimposed upon this, there is repetitive epileptiform activity with variability.  There is an
epileptiform focus in the right posterior quadrant with variability.  That focus may be maximum and
T6 O2 or P4.The epileptiform has variability in amplitude and maximum, ranges in frequency from
0.5 to 3 Hz, and on one occasion spreads to involve 01.



Seizure medications were initiated during the EEG, and by the end of the study EEG is more of a
pattern of diffuse slowing, with more occipital slowing and an underlying P4 T6 periodic sharp wave,
not as prominent as in the beginning of the record


Marked generalized slowing is present.





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


See above


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Tactile and auditory stimulation did not impact the patient's clinical
appearance or the EEG pattern



EVENTS:


The pattern described above is compatible with a repetitive seizure pattern or a localization-related
complex partial status pattern



HEART RATE:



A heart rate of 118bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal ICU stat EEG due to:


1.  Repetitive, evolving epileptiform activity, compatible with a status epilepticus pattern from the
right posterior quadrant.

2. Generalized background slowing.


3. Posterior slowing.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings were communicated to the clinical team during the recording.  Antiepileptic drug
therapy was initiated and the patient will go on to EEG monitoring.
