HISTORY:

23 y.o. female with a history of migraines and episodic "white outs" described as
"sees white, hears things but cannot communicate and body shuts down, last about 1 hour, with
subsequent migraine," referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS: birth control



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

There is occasional bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing, at times sharply contoured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
bilaterally synchronous slow waves.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed
during drowsiness and sleep, does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Occasional bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing, at times sharply contoured



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of bitemporal cerebral dysfunction.
