HISTORY:

36 y.o. female with a history of delusions that she is ill, referred for routine EEG for
evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing is present.


Occasional independent and synchronous right temporal polymorphic slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
focal slowing in the bitemporal regions



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing



2. Occasional independent and synchronous right temporal polymorphic slowing




CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of bitemporal (left > right) cerebral
dysfunction.
