HISTORY:

20 y.o. female with a history of 2 convulsions.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


doxycycline (ADOXA) 100 mg tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth daily.

benzoyl peroxide (BENZAC AC) 10 % gel, Apply 1 Application topically 2 times daily.

dapsone (ACZONE) 7.5 % Gel with Pump, Apply  topically daily.


TRETINOIN TOP, Apply  topically.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and
produces diffuse, symmetric high-voltage, frontally-maximal 2-3 Hz activity.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 56 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:


This is a normal 1 hour awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal 1 hour awake and asleep routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
