HISTORY:

58 y.o. female with a history of advanced

scleroderma, chronic pain, previous EEG monitoring confirming


nonepileptic seizures.  Recent worsening of frontal headaches

followed by 4 episodes of daytime spasms, referred for routine

EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events and characterization of


seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 250 mg EC tablet, Take 250 mg by mouth

daily as needed.


DOC-Q-LACE 100 mg capsule, 100 mg 2 times daily.

oxyCODONE (ROXICODONE) 15 mg immediate release tablet,

fentanyl (DURAGESIC) 100 mcg/hr, Place 1 patch onto the skin


every 48 hours.




fentanyl (DURAGESIC) 50 mcg/hr, Place 1 patch onto the skin

every 48 hours as needed.


Nystatin (NYSTOP) 100,000 unit/g Powd, Apply  topically as

needed.


polyethylene glycol (GLYCOLAX) 17 gram packet, Take 17 g by mouth

as needed. prn

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, 5,000 unit Capsule,

hydrOXYzine (ATARAX) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily as


needed. 1 to 2 tablets as needed



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and


photic stimulation.  The patient is somewhat jittery



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically


with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.  The patient seems

to drop in and out of stage II sleep, she demonstrates


micro-sleeps.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.



The micro-sleeps described above may be due to the use of

sedative hypnotic medications in this patient with chronic,


severe pain
