HISTORY:

20 y.o. female with a history of seizure on 11/5/16 without prior history (out of
sleep, tongue biting, tearful, vomiting per mother) referred for routine EEG for characterization of
seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9-10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and bursts of sharply contoured theta with diffuse background slowing are seen.
Note that some of these bursts occur in close temporal proximity to definite wakeful states.



Note that there is near continuous vertical and lateral eye movement artifact seen throughout the
record, even during bursts of theta frequencies in drowsiness.  Some of these bursts are sharply
contoured and appear to have spike activity, but spike activity may represent artifact (i.e., lateral
rectus spikes).




Sleep is not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No definite epileptiform activity is present.  However, please note background has sharply contoured
theta bursts and near continuous vertical eye movement, and epileptiform activity may be "buried" in
these waveforms.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
bilaterally synchronous slow waves.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) produced
synchronous and symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:


This is an essentially normal awake and drowsy 1-hour EEG, though a mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction cannot be ruled out.  Please see body of report for details.  There are no clinical or
electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an essentially normal awake and drowsy 1-hour EEG, though a mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction cannot be ruled out.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.

A recording capturing sleep is recommended to assess bifrontal regions as interpretation over these
regions is limited by near constant vertical and horizontal eye movement.
