HISTORY:

24 y.o. female with a history of body jerks for 4 years, referred for routine EEG for
evaluation of paroxysmal events.  She is currently in her first trimester of pregnancy.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


PNV,CA42/IRON/FA/LMEFOL CA/DHA (PNV-DHA PLUS PO), Take  by mouth.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None clearly present. See



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.





EVENTS:

There are multiple body jerks captured during this study, nearly every 10-20 seconds.



CLINICAL: The patient is reclined in the chair and, within 400 msec, elevates both shoulders, thrusts
out arms, then brings arms back to body with "shivering" movement.



EEG: Each episode correlates with burst of diffuse muscle/movement artifact, obscuring underlying
background. There are no definite spikes/polyspikes preceding this activity. Often there is a slow wave
following the activity that correlates with the movement. Note that this burst of activity appears
simultaneously in all EEG leads and the single EKG lead. Midway through the study, an EMG lead is
placed on the arm, and EMG activity coincides with EEG and EKG activity.






HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Multiple body jerks captured as described above, without any clearly associated preceding EEG
epileptiform activity. Note that the EEG during the movement itself is obscured by movement/muscle
artifact.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of diffuse body jerks without clearly associated epileptiform
activity, although the EEG during the movement itself is obscured by artifact. A prolonged recording
capturing sleep may be of benefit to assess whether these movements persist or resolve in sleep.
There were no definite epileptiform discharges captured during this otherwise normal awake and
drowsy study.
