HISTORY:


31 y.o. male with a history of being found secondary to a drug overdose, now with
episodes of gaze deviation concerning for seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:

midazolam (VERSED) 1 mg/mL injection 4 mg


famotidine (PF) (PEPCID) injection 20 mg

propofol (DIPRIVAN) 1000 mg/100 mL IV infusion

LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg


piperacillin-tazobactam (ZOSYN) 3.375 g in sodium chloride 0.9 % 50 mL IVPB MB+

vancomycin (VANCOCIN) 1,000 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 250 mL IVPB MB+

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

white petrolatum-mineral oil (LACRI-LUBE) ophthalmic ointment 1 Application



norepinephrine (LEVOPHED) 16 mg/250 mL (64 mcg/mL) in NSS infusion

sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion


dexmedetomidine (PRECEDEX) 400 mcg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL infusion

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 500 mg




SEDATION: propofol, ativan, versed and presedex



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with
T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and
included a single channel of EKG.





DAY 1 (11/30/2016- 12/1/2016)



BACKGROUND:

There is no PDR or AP gradient.



The background during periods of quiescence consists of slow diffuse frontally predominant delta
activity, periods of discontinuity, rare brief bursts of diffuse theta activity and generalized low
amplitude sleep spindle-like waveforms. With stimulation, the background becomes continuous and
delta activity increases in frequency and assumes more triphasic appearance.




PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected



EKG: A single lead captured heart rate of 60 bpm.


DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal ~14 hour long term video EEG due to:

Severe diffuse slowing and triphasic-like waveforms





These finding are indicative of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific,
but suggestive of toxic-metabolic etiology.




Triphasic waves are a nonspecific EEG finding that can be seen in encephalopathy (mostly
commonly hepatic), uremia, anoxia and many other etiologies.



No events of gaze deviation are marked.


Overall, this recording does not differ from the spot EEG performed a day earlier.

-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 2 (12/1/2016 - 12/2/2016)



BACKGROUND: for at least first half of the recording there is no change in the background compared
to day #1 of the recording.  In the second half of the recording there are more arousal episodes.
These are characterized by a mixture of theta and delta activity at first.  As the recording progresses,
there is increase in the degree of theta activity during the arousals.  By the end of the recording,
during the arousals, the background consists of fragmented low amplitude ~ 7 Hz polymorphic theta
activity posteriorly with weak but present AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient.







PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None


SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Rare (<1hour) well defined high amplitude generalized
spikes with aftergoing slow waves are captured.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over the bilateral
frontocentral regions and vertex (Cz lead).  More frequent but less defined generalized frontally
predominant low to medium amplitude spikes are captured.  These discharges are present during
periods of quiescence.



EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected



EKG: A single EKG lead captured heart rate of ~ 66 bpm.






DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION



Abnormal 24 hour recording due to (1) generalized slowing that lessens throughout the recording and
(2) rare frontocentrally predominant epileptiform discharges.



The latter finding indicates cortical irritability.  Diffuse slowing indicates diffuse cerebral dysfunction,
that, in this patient, is at least partially related to the medication effect.



No electrographic seizures are captured.
