HISTORY:


63 y.o. male with a history of astrocytoma, confusional spells referred for EEG for
evaluation of paroxysmal events. MRI demonstrated:  There is abnormal signal in the

posterior superior mid temporal lobe demonstrating patchy enhancement and a subtle peripheral
margin of subcortical paramagnetic effect on


the GE T2. Within this area (medially) of signal abnormality there


is a prominent ependymal vessel. There is a second rounded region of

enhancement measuring approximately 6 mm located approximately 2 cm

inferiorly and anteriorly in the temporal lobe. Mildly increased T2


FLAIR signal abnormality is also noted in the left thalamus and

periatrial white matter as well as the left posterior insular cortex.

MEDICATIONS:


TORADOL, KEPPRA, ACYCLOVIR, ATORVASTATIN, LORAZEPAM


SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:


A bedside video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) monitor was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.



DAY 1 (11/08/15 1 PM- 11/09/2015 6 AM, 16 hours)


This record was reviewed by the on call physician at the time of the recording.

BACKGROUND:

The waking background is  continuous, but asymmetric. On the right it is well-organized, and consists
predominantly of 10 Hz alphaa with admixed beta.


Posterior dominant rhythm was  Present but disrupted on the left.



The background is  reactive,  variable.



There were asymmetries in amplitude and frequency, congruent with structural process on the left.


Sleep was not sustained, and there are EOMS in drowsiness. In sleep, Left temporal focal slowing is
more sustained. .



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Rare (<1hour) noted primarily in sleep, T3 T5 sharp in context of breech


EVENTS: there were no electrographic events


1. Behaviors with restlessness, R hand comes to face, but patient is always responsive. He seems
uncomfortable.

5:07 PM, 6:10, 6:34, 11:22, 12:35- No ictal pattern,L posterior temporal focal slowing present, but
not significantly different than interictal pattern


2. Crying  5:40 AM - no ictal pattern, wake with muscle artifact


EKG: A single lead captured 96 BPM

DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to:


Abnormal due to:

L focal slowing

Rare sharp waves



Of note, the patient demonstrated very little sustained sleep. The crying spells are not ictal. The
behaviors have some stereotypic features, but there are no accompanying scalp EEG changes.



-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 2 (11/09/2015 , 06:00 - 11/10/2015 , 06:00)


Technical- electrode artifact was noted in much of the record The technologist fix the electrode
several times but when the patient is unsupervised, he seems to be taking them  off

BACKGROUND: No change



GENERALIZED SLOWING: No change



FOCAL SLOWING:  sleep was captured with clear Left focal slowing, temporal most significant


PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): Sharply contoured activity (L)



SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Abundant (>1/10s) L posterior temporal blunted PLED,
noted only in drowsiness   sleep, without evolution, with limited sleep


EVENTS:

none


DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION

Generalized background slowing

L focal slowing


L posterior temporal continuous periodic complexes in sleep, which may disrupt sleep. There was
much more drowsy/sleep in this section

Of note, the patient demonstrated very little sustained sleep.


The crying spells are not ictal. The behaviors have some stereotypic and localizing features, but
there are no accompanying scalp EEG changes.  This may represent a simple partial seizure or
nonepileptic event


-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 3(11/10/2015 06:00 - 11/10/2015 , 09:00)


Only 3 hours

BACKGROUND: No change




GENERALIZED SLOWING: No change



FOCAL SLOWING: There is sleep noted in this record with focal slowing in the left posterior quadrant
and periodic slowing and  Blunted sharp waves with variable maximum including T1 T3 T5



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None



SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  periodic complexes/ slowing  in drowsy/sleep


EVENTS: none


EKG: N/A


DAY 3 and overall  IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION


This is a 2 day plus three hour continuous video EEG monitoring session for an individual with 2
behavioral issues.

The first behavioral issue was crying.  The crying had no EEG signature and the patient was
responsive throughout


The second behavior included stereotypic behavior with the patient putting his hands to his right face
or right ear and sometimes reporting either ear pain or hearing something.  There was no EEG
signature for those symptoms.


The background is however markedly abnormal.  There is clear focal slowing from the left posterior
quadrant with periodic discharges in that region.  The periodic complexes are much more remarkable
in sleep which was quite fragmented




Overall, the background is congruent with the clinical history and the neuro imaging.

The stereotypic behaviors with hands coming to right ear may represent a simple partial seizure
without scalp EEG correlate or any non-epileptiform behavior.  Although the specific interventions
taken were not documented in the EEG,  the episodes seemed to have resolved by the close of the
record.
