HISTORY:

68 y.o. male with a history of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 400 mg 12 hr tablet, 1 tab twice a

day

multivitamin (DAILY-VITE) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth


daily.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None






TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The awake background consists of 8.5 Hz alpha activity

posteriorly, weak AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient and excess


diffuse polymorphic theta activity.


During drowsiness, diffuse polymorphic theta activity appears, as

well as bursts of variable duration of diffuse frontally


predominant semi-rhythmic 2-4 Hz delta activity.  They are more

prominent over the right.



Sleep is not captured





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Independent epileptiform discharges are captured over the left


midtemporal region (occasional, T3 max), right anterior

-midtemporal region (intermittent, T2-T4 max), right prefrontal

region (intermittent, Fp2 max).



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional

abnormalities.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 27-minute routine EEG due


to:

1. Mild diffuse slowing

2. Focal right temporal slowing

3. Independent multifocal epileptiform discharges (T3 max, T2-T4


max, and Fp2 max)



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate multiple bilateral epileptogenic foci,

etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction and right

temporal focal cerebral dysfunction, possibly structural in


etiology.

When compared to his prior routine EEG in 2015, the current study


demonstrates similar findings.
