HISTORY:

65 y.o. male admitted on 7/5, referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental
status change.



MEDICATIONS:


No anticonvulsant medications


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7-7.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present. A large
amount of muscle and eye blink artifact was seen. The patient was noted to have a tremor.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Very brief stage II sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric
vertex waves and increased generalized slowing.




No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 74 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a mildly abnormal awake, drowsy, and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Mild diffuse slowing of dominant posterior rhythm during wakefulness. As noted, excessive eye
blink and muscle artifact are seen.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate a mild generalized disturbance of cerebral activity such as that seen with a
variety of generalized encephalopathies of various etiologies. No persistent focal slowing, no clinical
or electrical seizures and no paroxysmal epileptiform discharges were recorded.
