HISTORY:

21 y.o. male with a history of 2 seizures this year.  Both preceded by vomiting,
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Keppra

TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  Waking background
is remarkable for generous, diffuse beta and a small amount of excess theta








During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by vertex waves and spindles and generous beta.  The patient transitions in
and out of stage II sleep frequently.



Mild generalized slowing is present: Excess theta


In transition to sleep, focal slowing is present.  This is characterized by some bursts of shifting, sharply
contoured slowing but these are more prominent on the left, particularly left temporal region



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Hyperventilation: Produces increase in amplitude of the background



Photic Stimulation: Elicits a driving response, although the patient was falling asleep



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1.  Mild background disorganization with excess theta


2.  Infrequent left temporal focal slowing in drowsiness only

CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings may be correlated with clinical history.  The prominent beta and theta may be
correlated with the patient's history and other factors.  The temporal features may be correlated with
imaging.  No epileptiform features were identified in the sharply contoured record.  Please consider a
one hour EEG.
