HISTORY: 40 y.o. male with a history of L craniotomy, L hemispheric encephalomalacia and gliosis, and epilepsy, presenting with epilepsy exacerbation and LEFT hemiparesis, now intubated on versed, referred for EEG for screening for subclinical seizures.  MEDICATIONS: loaded with fosphenytoin; started on Propofol  SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (8/4/2016, 17:58 - 8/5/2016, 09:24)  BACKGROUND: The background is reactive, but asymmetric. The background is initially discontinuous but by 20:30 becomes continuous. The left hemisphere consists of disorganized delta, alpha, and beta. There is continuous left frontal polymorphic slowing. The right hemisphere consists of a more attenuated beta and alpha activity, with increasing prevalence of underlying delta as day progresses. During times of relative wakefulness there is less attenuation and increased alpha prevalence.  There is moderate-severe generalized slowing.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  1. As the study progresses, there are frequent left anterior temporal (F7/T1>T3 max) sharp waves  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s-80s.  IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to: 1. Moderate to severe generalized slowing and background disorganization 2. Continuous left frontal polymorphic slowing 3. Attenuation of rhythms over the right hemisphere 4. Frequent left anterior temporal sharp waves as study progresses  CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are consistent with right hemisphere cortical dysfunction and left frontal cerebral dysfunction (which may correlate with imaging findings of left hemisphere encephalomalacia and gliosis), superimposed on a moderate to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction. The latter may at least in part be associated with sedating medications.  There is evidence for epileptogenic potential over the left temporal region. There were no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected during this study. 
