HISTORY:

31 y.o. female with a history of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Keppra






SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:




The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During brief drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~120 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.




A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.



The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of
epilepsy.





































































