HISTORY:


60 y.o. female with a history of HIV and

rectal cancer, now presents with right facial twitching, found to

have new brain masses.



MEDICATIONS:

Ativan, Dilantin



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and




included a single channel of EKG.




BACKGROUND:


Early in the recording, the background consists of a mixture of

polymorphic low amplitude delta and beta activity.  As the

recording progresses, periods of arousals are captured.  During

periods of arousals, the background consists of 9Hz alpha


activity posteriorly, poor AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient

and excess diffuse theta and delta activity.



Symmetrical vertex waves and K-complexes are captured.


There is subtle paucity of faster frequencies over the left.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None are clearly captured.


EVENTS: A single clinical event is captured around 6:09 PM.  It

lasts ~ 80 seconds.  Patient is not fully visualized on a video.


Rhythmic facial twitching (unclear if unilateral or bilateral) is

seen on a video (as per the housestaff, patient had right facial


twitching).  Patient is awake and converses throughout the

episode.  Electrographically, rhythmic high amplitude EMG

artifact first appears over the right anterior leads and

progresses to involve bilateral anterior leads.  No other ictal


correlate is detected.



EKG: A single lead captured ~80 bpm.


IMPRESSION

Diffuse slowing - mild


Focal slowing - subtle - left hemispheric

Seizure - one - ~ 80 sec in duration - only associated with EMG


artifact on EEG




CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal 24-hour continuous video EEG due to (1) mild

diffuse slowing: (2) subtle focal slowing over the left and (3) a


single episode of facial twitching (reportedly right) that is

only associated with rhythmic EMG artifact.


This finding is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction,


which is etiologically nonspecific, but in this case, at least

partially related to the medication effect.


Subtle left hemispheric focal slowing is indicative of a focal

structural lesion in this region.

Only ~ 25% of simple partial seizures is detected on a scalp EEG.



These findings were conveyed to the primary team.
