HISTORY:

57 y.o.  female who had seizures 24 yrs ago. She has had none since and stopped her
medication (dilantin) in Decemeber 2015. PCP wanted her to see a Neurologist and follow up.


Per pt EEG 24 years ago was slightly abnormal



pmh: SZ and Asthma


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

albuterol (PROVENTIL HFA;VENTOLIN HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs
every 6 hours as needed for Wheezing.


fluticasone (FLONASE) 50 mcg/actuation nasal spray, 2 sprays by Each Nare route daily.

fluticasone (FLOVENT HFA) 44 mcg/actuation HFA Aerosol Inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs 2
times daily.


phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, take 1 capsule by mouth three times a day



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically limited record
due to very frequent temporalis muscle artifact which impeded the appropriate evaluation of this
area and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During limited drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the
posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a limited normal awake only  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake only  routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
