HISTORY:

33 y.o. female with her fifth episode with loss of consciousness. The event
was identical to the previous events that she has had since she was a teenager. All occur in the
context of sleep deprivation and dehydration. All began with the visual matrix, prolonged deja vu,
then LOC. referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions: cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 5 mg tablet,  naproxen (NAPROSYN)
500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).



TECHNIQUE:

A  1 hour sleep deprived Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using
the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  This is followed by prominent, rhythmic
central theta and then POSTS.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.  Abundant stage II sleep was
note

No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Hyperventilation: Produces a small amount of rhythmic background slowing

Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.  The driving response was elicited, despite the
fact that the patient was falling asleep




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE: A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal 1 hour sleep deprived awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or
electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG. A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the
diagnosis of epilepsy.  These results are similar to previous studies.
