HISTORY:

19 y.o. male with a history of rotation and tremor after motor vehicle accident
referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


He was initially a transfer from St. Chris on 11/13/16 after being restrained passenger in MVC. Found
to have a right sided femur and tib/fib fracture. Placed in skeletal traction by orthopedic team. Serial
compartment checks revealed no sign of compartment syndrome and the patient remained
neurovascularly intact. Throughout day of 11/14/16, patient developed a systemic inflammatory
response with tachycardia, fever, and desaturations in the 80s. CTA chest showed scattered ground
glass opacities. Because of this response, plan was made for patient to go to OR with ortho for ex-fix
then transfer to SICU for continued care. Following the placement of the ex-fix, the patient was
extubated, but had subsequent episodes of desaturations and agitation. As a result, the patient was
re-intubated and sedated with propofol. In PACU patient was transferred under the care of SICU
team. Patient had decrease in O2 saturation but remained at or above 93%. Patient transferred to
SICU and remains






intubated and sedated.




Per the nurse, whenever the sedation is turned off it is unable to control him, he moves around and is
not redirectable.


MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:



vancomycin (VANCOCIN) 1,250 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 250 mL IVPB

ceFEPIme (MAXIPIME) 2 g in dextrose 5 % 100 mL IVPB


QUEtiapine (SEROQUEL) tablet 75 mg

albuterol 5 mg/3.5 mL combination mixture for nebulization


famotidine (PEPCID) 40 mg/5 mL (8 mg/mL) suspension 20 mg

HYDROmorphone (DILAUDID) injection 1.5 mg

esmolol (BREVIBLOC) 2000 mg in sodium chloride (iso-osm) 100 mL infusion

bisacodyl (DULCOLAX) suppository 10 mg


oxyCODONE (ROXICODONE) 5 mg/5 mL solution 10 mg

senna leaf extract (SENOKOT) syrup 176 mg


midazolam (VERSED) 50 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 50 mL infusion

white petrolatum-mineral oil (LACRI-LUBE) ophthalmic ointment 1 Application

chlorhexidine (PERIDEX) 0.12 % solution 15 mL

Dilaudid, benzodiazepines



TECHNIQUE:


A bed side portable ICU Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using
the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbla  stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The  background is characterized by the presence of symmetric pattern, reaching beta frequency
activity.  The primary frequencies in the background are 12-15 Hz with smaller amounts of theta.
Intermittent bursts of delta are noted.  Stimulation of the patient produces an arousal with decrease
in the beta and an increase in delta





No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Tactile stimulation or coughing produces an arousal with bursts of
delta

EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 107 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG due to:

1.  Replacement of normal background with sedated pattern characterized by diffuse beta with small
amounts of alpha and theta



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are compatible with pharmacologic sedation.  This record is reactive and variable.
No epileptiform features were seen
