HISTORY:


33 y.o. female with a history of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 300 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

cetirizine (ZYRTEC) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.


multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

DOCOSAHEXANOIC ACID/EPA (FISH OIL PO), Take  by mouth.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:







A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



Excess diffuse beta activity is captured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and
produces diffuse, symmetric high-voltage, frontally-maximal 2-3 Hz activity.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.

Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.
