CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 40-year-old with a past history of

meningitis, premature baby, one of a pair of twins.  Childhood


epilepsy, likely seizure free for the last 5 years.  Seizures

characterized by forced eye closure, shaking of the head.



MEDICATIONS:  Tegretol, Keppra, folate, Depakote, others.


INTRODUCTION:  One-hour digital video EEG was performed in lab


using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel

EKG.  Neither hyperventilation nor photic stimulation were

possible for this developmentally disabled adult.



DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  This 1-hour EEG is recorded with the

patient in a state of relaxed wakefulness/early drowsiness.  The


EEG is markedly abnormal and includes an overall background,

mixed frequency, diffusely slow with generous beta, theta, and

delta.  The normal morphologies of wakefulness and drowsiness are


absent.  There are frequent, nearly continuous high amplitude,




frontal spike and wave or sharp wave complexes, which may be

unilateral or bilateral, varying in amplitude and morphology.  In


addition, there are additional focal high amplitude sharp waves

or spikes noted from the right hemisphere in the right frontal


central region.  In this challenging record, there is a section

of the record with beta activity noted in the right occipital

region.  There is also a section of the record, which has

significant artifact, but then this is followed by a train of


right occipital sharp waves without definitive frequency

evolution and then another burst of beta followed by the sharp


waves.  The epileptiform activity varies in terms of whether

being right occipital morphologies are more prominent or the

independent or bilateral bifrontal spike and slow wave complexes

are noted.  The bursts of O2 sharp waves and spikes are not


clearly associated with a change in the patient's clinical

status.



Sleep stages are difficult to differentiate from the relaxed

wakefulness, but there may be more beta, particularly in the

right frontal central region



Heart rate: 72 bpm.



IMPRESSION:  This is a markedly abnormal EEG due to:

1. Replacement of normal background with a diffusely slow, poorly

organized pattern.


2. Abundant epileptiform activity including frontal unilateral or

bilateral spike and slow reverse spike activity.


3. Right hemispheric spikes.

4. Occipital focus present sometimes more bilaterally, but right

occipital maximum.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In this highly epileptogenic record, the

fast activity followed by the sharp waves may represent an ictal


pattern, but it is difficult to tell and given that behavioral

challenges for this


individual, it may be difficult for an individual to perform bed

testing to determine if that discharge is clinically significant.
