HISTORY:

44 y.o. female with a history of seizures, now with recurrent events despite increase
in her AEDs (anti-epileptic medications).



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 40 mg


senna (SENOKOT) tablet 2 tablet

docusate sodium (COLACE) capsule 100 mg

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 500 mg


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg

clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) tablet 2 mg

zolpidem (AMBIEN) tablet 10 mg


albuterol (PROVENTIL) nebulizer solution 2.5 mg

clopidogrel (PLAVIX) tablet 75 mg



FLUoxetine (PROZAC) capsule 10 mg

lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) tablet 10 mg


pantoprazole (PROTONIX) EC tablet 20 mg

polyethylene glycol (GLYCOLAX) packet 17 g


sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units

dextrose 50% injection 25 mL

dextrose 50% injection 50 mL


glucagon (human recombinant) (GLUCAGEN) injection 1 mg

insulin lispro (HumaLOG) injection 12 Units


insulin lispro (HumaLOG) injection 1-5 Units

insulin glargine (LANTUS) injection 25 Units




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with
T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and
included a single channel of EKG.





DAY 1 (12/7/2016 - 12/8/2016)


BACKGROUND:



The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep was characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.





Diffuse excess beta activity is seen.



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


A single right anterior temporal sharp transient is captured during sleep.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



EVENTS: a single prolonged event is captured.  Clinically patient wakes up, starts moaning, has brief
(~2 sec) leg shaking (they are under the covers), continues to moan and lightly arch her back.  She
also tries to move up in the bed.  She looks for an event button , but, after she cannot find it, she
pushes the nurse call button. She continues to have slight back arching alternating with moaning and
leg kicking (under the covers).  When the PCA comes into the room and speaks to the patient, her
shaking increases and she does not respond.  Her head is turned towards the left.  Even though
shaking, moaning and back arching eventually stop, her head remains turned to the left.  She stays in
that position for many minutes.






Electrographically, the patient is awake when the event starts.  The background remains normal
throughout the event.



EKG: A single lead captured a regular heart rate



DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal ~20 hour long term video EEG.




A single prolonged event of moaning, back arching, leg kicking/ shaking and forced head turning
towards the left has no abnormal ictal correlate.



Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.




A single right anterior temporal sharp transient is of uncertain clinical significance.
