



CLINICAL HISTORY: A 52-year-old woman with schizophrenia since early adulthood. The patient reports either 2-3 year history of seizures characterized by eye twitching, bilateral shaking with or without loss of consciousness, and staring spells. The patient also reports onset of epilepsy 29 years ago.
MEDICATIONS: Keppra, Klonopin, Seroquel, many others.
INTRODUCTION: This is the second day of continuous video EEG monitoring using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG. Seizure and spike detection software was utilized. There were 3 push buttons.
Background: In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz alpha rhythm with excess theta and modest beta. Although the patient is often considered drowsy, deeper stages of sleep are limited. Occasional shifting slowing was noted, as was prominent wicket.
Eplleptiforrn detections: None.
Epileptlforrn seizures: None.
Push buttons: There were 3 push buttons, including 5:16 p.m., 8:29 p.m., 1:03 a.m., and 4:47 a.m. The first 2 events appeared to have been practice push buttons.
PB 1:03 a.m., the patient had been asleep in the minutes beforehand. Typically, the patient was not achieving deeper stages of sleep with significant background slowing. She was in stage 2 sleep at 12:52. She awakens and reports feeling sweaty as if she is about to have a seizure. EEG demonstrates her typical awake pattern with heart rate 78 bpm. No epileptiform features were noted.
PB 4:47 AM, the patient is awake, moving both sides spontaneously and puts her hand to her mouth. She pushes the button. The nurse comes in to test the patient, who was unimpaired. EEG demonstrates this patient's typical awake background. No epileptiform features were noted
Heart rate: 66-78 bpm.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION: Day 2 of EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
	•	Excess theta.
	•	Modest excess beta.
	•	Shifting slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: The shifting slowing may be related to this patient's previous intracranial ischemic pathology. The excess theta may be related to this patient's pharmacotherapy or background pathology. Thus far, no epileptiform features have been identified.





