HISTORY:

33 y.o. male with a history of localization

related epilepsy s/p gunshot wound to the head and subsequent


craniotomy, referred for routine EEG.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

escitalopram oxalate (LEXAPRO) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth

daily.


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, TAKE ONE TABLET BY MOUTH

TWICE A DAY

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2


times daily.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times

daily.


lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth




every 12 hours.

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3


times daily.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2


times daily.

escitalopram (LEXAPRO) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) 0.5 mg tablet, Take 0.5 mg by mouth as

needed.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is continuous and asymmetric.

The left hemisphere consists of a well organized mixture of alpha


and beta frequencies, with a reactive 11 Hz posterior dominant

rhythm.

The right hemisphere consists of a fairly well organized mixture

of alpha, beta, and occasional theta frequencies with a reactive


11 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.

There is a continuous right hemispheric breach rhythm, with


admixed sharply contoured theta waves that phase reverse over the

fronto-temporal (F8) and posterior quadrant (T6, P4) regions.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



There are normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric


sleep spindles and K-complexes present during Stage II sleep.

Slow wave sleep is not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


There is continuous mild right hemispheric polymorphic slowing.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal Awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Continuous mild right hemispheric polymorphic slowing and

suboptimal organization

2. Right hemispheric breach rhythm



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of right hemispheric


cerebral dysfunction.

Right hemispheric breach rhythm is consistent with this patient's


known prior history of gunshot wound and craniotomy.
