HISTORY:

67 y.o. female with a history of intraventricular, left thalamic, and basal
ganglia intracerebral bleed secondary to left supraclinoid ICA aneurysm rupture, status post aneurysm
coiling. She has a history of seizures which have been controlled on medication. She was referred
for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

senna-docusate (SENNOSIDES-DOCUSATE SODIUM) 8.6-50 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth
daily.
OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


mirtazapine (REMERON) 7.5 mg tablet, Take 7.5 mg by mouth nightly.

losartan (COZAAR) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth daily.

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.


traZODone (DESYREL) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth nightly.

simvastatin (ZOCOR) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth nightly.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized and reactive 9-10 Hertz
posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) on the right, with poorly developed left posterior rhythmic activity.
Low amplitude frontocentral beta activity is seen bilaterally nearly continuous irregular 3-6 Hz slow
activity is seen over the left hemisphere.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse left
greater than right hemispheric background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) paroxysmal left temporal sharply contoured slow waves are seen as well
as frequent sharp waves phase reversing at F7-T3 are seen.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Nearly continuous left hemispheric slowing and poorly organized dominant posterior rhythm.


2. Paroxysmal sharp and slow activity in the left mid to anterior centrotemporal region.





CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of left hemispheric functional disturbance with an area of
epileptogenic potential in the mid to anterior left temporal region. No clinical or electrographic
seizures were captured during this study.
