HISTORY: 65 y.o. female with a history of stroke, now presents in status epilepticus.    MEDICATIONS: Current Outpatient Prescriptions: divalproex (DEPAKOTE DR) 500 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily. levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth every 12 hours for 360 days. lacosamide (VIMPAT) 200 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours. rosuvastatin (CRESTOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days. hydrochlorothiazide (MICROZIDE) 12.5 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily for 360 days. Aspirin 81 mg Tablet, Take  by mouth daily. clopidogrel (PLAVIX) 75 mg tablet, Take 75 mg by mouth daily. fluoxetine (PROZAC) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily. lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily. metformin (GLUCOPHAGE) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth daily (with breakfast). metoprolol (LOPRESSOR) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth 2 times daily. rosuvastatin (CRESTOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.  No current facility-administered medications for this visit.   SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1   BACKGROUND: The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well-organized mixture of alpha and beta frequencies seen over the right, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.   Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left temporal maximal in the mid and anterior temporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.   Sleep was characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes.   EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Continuous quasi-periodic (quasi-PLEDs) high amplitude spikes with aftergoing slow waves with a repetition rate of 0.3-0.75 Hz (up to 1 Hz) are seen over the left temporal region, maximal over F7, T3 and T5 leads.    OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None    EVENTS: No electrographic seizures are captured.   DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal 12-hour long term video EEG due to: (1) continuous moderate focal left temporal slowing (2) 0.3-1 Hz quasi-periodic (quasi-PLEDs) left temporal epileptiform discharges  These findings indicate focal potentially epileptogenic stuctural abnormality over the left temporal region. -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 2   BACKGROUND: No change  FOCAL SLOWING: No change   SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: unchanged  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.  However, after ~4:29 PM, ~8 brief (4-7 sec long) left temporal runs (BIRDs ((Brief Ictal/Interictal Rhythmic/Repetitive Discharges)) with activity that resembles patient's seizures (rhythmic ~1 Hz high amplitude spikes admixed with moderate amplitude rhythmic theta activity) are captured.  Last such an event occurs at 8:13:29 PM.  Patient's AEDs were adjusted as a result of these runs. No clinical correlate reported with these events.     DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  This is an abnormal 24-hour continuous video EEG due to  (1) ongoing left temporal quasi-PLEDs (2) ~8 BIRDs  (Brief Ictal/Interictal Rhythmic/Repetitive Discharges) runs that resolve after AED adjustment (3) focal left temporal slowing  These findings indicate left temporal structural abnormality that is highly epileptogenic, thus increasing risk of seizure recurrence in this patient.   
