HISTORY:

49 y.o. female with a history of seizures (last: 10/2016), asthma, HIV, HTN,
bipolar disorder, and substance abuse, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: Amlodipine, ASA, Lipitor, Plavix, Risperdal, Zoloft, Ramelton, Albuterol, Melatonin,
Tramadol, Keppra, Depakote, Vimpat, Lisinopril




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha, beta, and theta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but
suboptimal.



During early drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements and attenuation and fragmentation of the
posterior dominant rhythm are seen.




Sleep is not captured


Mild generalized slowing is present.


Frequent bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Occasional bilateral midtemporal independent sharp waves are noted, most consistent with a
benign variant (wicket waves)



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Frequent bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:






These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of a bitemporal dysfunction superimposed on
a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


Bitemporal independent sharp waves are most consistent with a benign variant (wicket waves).

Note that this study did not capture stage II sleep.
