DATE OF STUDY: 06/30/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 60 min  awake and asleep




HISTORY:

a 34 y.o. female with a history of 3 seizures in 2015, in context of drug use,
incarceration.  Hep C, migraine, TBI. Today referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 3 times daily.

metoclopramide (REGLAN) 10 mg tablet,


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 25 mg tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

propranolol (INDERAL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.

sumatriptan (IMITREX) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tab by mouth as needed for migraine. May repeat dose
in 2 hours. Not to exceed 2 doses in 24 hours.


magnesium oxide (MAG-OX) 400 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


pantoprazole (PROTONIX) 40 mg tablet,






TECHNIQUE:

A 1 hour  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 systemwith T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



In relaxed wakefulness, there is posterior slowing, with posterior theta and a mildly disorganized
patternn


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None and Occasional wicket waves are noted during drowsiness over the temporal regions


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: does not produce any pathological features.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:




This is an abnormal 1 hour wake and sleep routine EEG due to:

1. For a subject of this age, mild disorganization and posterior slowing, seen in relaxed wakefulness.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


There were no epileptiform features. These findings may be correlated with imaging and clinical
history of migraine, TBI and liver disease.

Attending Epileptologist:


I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.






























































