HISTORY:

34 y.o. female with a history of seizures  referred for routine EEG for characterization
of seizures.


Onset October 2015 and in February 2016 had her third. She is in recovery from IV heroin; first
seizure was 6 months clean while she was in jail; she felt an aura and then had a generalized seizure
that she does not recall; second one had been clean had half a bag, overdosed, when got narcan
she seized; was hospitalized for a week at Methodist with a prolonged post-ictal state. Third seizure
she was using but had not that say so she was in withdrawal. She was a daily user, 14 bags a day.
She has had a lot of head trauma in her life




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule,

metoclopramide (REGLAN) 10 mg tablet,

pantoprazole (PROTONIX) 40 mg tablet,


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 25 mg tablet,

propranolol (INDERAL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV, and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes.  Spiky vertex waves were seen Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
