HISTORY:

25 y.o. male with a history of seizures and K2 use.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


potassium chloride tablet 40 mEq

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg

alum-mag hydroxide-simeth (MYLANTA;MAALOX) 200-200-20 mg/5 mL suspension 30 mL

LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg


docusate sodium (COLACE) capsule 100 mg

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 500 mg

heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units









SEDATION: Ativan



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


Very brief waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a
moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.
Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR),
which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Patient is asleep through most of the recording.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


Diffuse excess beta activity is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.





EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal briefly awake and mostly asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or
electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a briefly awake and mostly asleep routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.


Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.
