DATE OF STUDY: 04/14/2016

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep





HISTORY:

a 41 y.o. female with a history of  epilepsy,

previously treated with carbamazepine.  Patient stopped medicine


and then seizures recurred.  Seizures began with aura of flashing

lights. referred for routine EEG for characterization of

seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 200 mg 12 hr tablet,

ARIPiprazole (ABILIFY) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.

ferrous sulfate 325 mg (65 mg iron) tablet, Take 1 tablet by


mouth 2 times daily.

docusate sodium (COLACE) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth

2 times daily.


ALBUTEROL IN, Inhale  into the lungs.





No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HVand

photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is low voltage , symmetric, reactive, and

consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal


beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior

gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and

reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which

attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Generous beta is


noted in wakefulness



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. POSTS. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


Mild excess theta is noted in wakefulness

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces generous diffuse

symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Elicits a vigorous driving response with


photic driving noted at slow frequencies as well as fast

frequencies.  Harmonic and super Harmonic as well as subharmonic

driving was identified



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

Given the description of the patient's seizures, additional


recording may be of value.  There was a very vigorous photic

driving response but the response never outlasted the stimuli and

there was no spike and wave activity.  Additional studies to look

for a a photosensitive epilepsy may be of value.


This EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
















































































