HISTORY:

24 y.o. male with a history of agenesis of

corpus callosum referred for routine EEG for evaluation of


spastic spells:  Semiology - there are different types of

episodes:

- hand starts shaking (either R or L) (


muscles

- other times head twitches

- other times he's


move



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

baclofen (LIORESAL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg at bedtime. After 1

week, may increase to 10 mg twice daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


SEDATION: None




TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation. The


patient had several of his spells during the EEG.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.





Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None




ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:




Hyperventilation:not able




Photic Stimulation: not able to cooperate, talking and

moving




EVENTS:

There were multiple clinical  events captured during this study,


only while awake.

Grimacing

Legs stiffen and the adduct.

There was no EEG change with any event, no loss of awareness,


just brief muscle




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG.  There are no

Epileptiform features.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.  No prior EEGS were found at this time
