HISTORY:

20 y.o. Pregnant female with a history of syncope and fall, returning to
baseline mentation within 2 minutes. CT showed agenesis of the corpus callosum with colpocephaly
of right lateral ventricle. She is referred for routine EEG for evaluation of any seizure activity.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units





SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness
demonstrates by a symmetric and reactive 10-10.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Frequent right greater than left occipital slow waves with
superimposed alpha activity is seen, likely representing benign posterior slow waves of youth.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. Two brief runs of rhythmic 5-6 Hz activity
are seen over the left temple region.




Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

EKG monitor revealed sinus arrhythmia at 70-75 bpm.



IMPRESSION:

Probably normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  Occipital slow waves noted likely represent benign
posterior slow waves of youth.



A normal interictal EEG cannot support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
