HISTORY:

20 y.o. Man with a history of shaking followed by loss of consciousness,
followed by one hour of confusion occurring in the evening referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.



Semiology:

#1 - first 4 seizures (nocturnal)

- blank stare


- then fall w/ shaking, foaming at mouth

- woke up in hospital. Per girlfriend via pt, he was talking in ambulance but 'out of it' and 'ripped out
IV.' estimated it takes 30 min to 'become myself.'


MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, 500 mg 2 times daily.


lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 25 mg tablet, Wk 1-2: 25 mg daily, Wk 3-4: 50 mg daily, Wk 5: 50 mg AM,
25 mg PM, Wk 6: 50 mg q12h, Wk 7: 100 mg AM, 50 mg PM, Wk 8: 100 mg q12h



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV, and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and increase in beta.



Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.






HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead with atypical beats.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy 24 min routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG. Please note the atypical beats captured on EKG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
