HISTORY:

48 y.o. female with a history of  2 seizures in 2006 and 2001.  Currently
seizure free.  Now, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


She also suffers with depression and obstructive sleep apnea

MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

tranexamic acid 650 mg Tablet, TK 2 TS PO BID FOR 5 DAYS

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


chlorthalidone (HYGROTEN) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3 times daily.

docusate sodium (COLACE) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily.


ferrous sulfate 325 mg (65 mg iron) tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

losartan (COZAAR) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

medroxyprogesterone (PROVERA) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


meloxicam (MOBIC) 7.5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

TECHNIQUE:



A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG , HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive  8.3 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None

OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None

ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Elicits a handful of bursts of shifting slowing


Photic Stimulation: The patient was asleep during photic stimulation.  The tech tried to wake the
patient up but could not achieve wakefulness   Until ~21 Hz stimuli.  No driving response was noted



EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1.  Mild slowing of the alpha rhythm, clearly defined by adequate testing by the technologist in the
lab
2.  Excessive drowsiness



CLINICAL CORRELATION: The findings of excessive drowsiness may be correlated with the history of
obstructive sleep apnea and an underlying sleep disturbance.  This patient was tested to make sure
that she was completely awake and in wakefulness, she clearly does have a somewhat slow alpha
rhythm.  That is a nonspecific finding and may be correlated with medications and overall clinical
history.
