HISTORY:

38 y.o. female with a history of Hypoglycemia

symptoms include dizziness, seizures and speech difficulty


referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

daily.


losartan-hydrochlorothiazide (HYZAAR) 50-12.5 mg per tablet, Take

1 tablet by mouth daily.

metFORMIN (GLUCOPHAGE) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth


daily (with breakfast).

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 2 capsules by mouth 3

times daily.






No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.  The

patient was quite drowsy.  There was a fair amount of EKG


artifact noted in the record.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically


with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.




Sleep is reached stage II sleep include spindles and POSTS


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Produces a small amount of background


slowing



Photic Stimulation: Did elicit a driving response, although

the patient was falling asleep


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy, brief stage II sleep  routine

EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.
