
HISTORY:
36 y.o. male referred for routine EEG after being found down unresponsive.

MEDICATIONS: PROTONIX, CHLORHEXIDINE, LORAZEPAM


TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) recording using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes was performed utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.

EEG BACKGROUND :
The waking background is symmetric and consists of a poorly organized mixture of predominately delta with superimposed theta and alpha activity.	There is no posterior dominant rhythm.
Though the background is not clearly reactive or variable during the recording, spontaneous eye blinks are noted.

Drowsiness and sleep transients are not captured.

Moderate to severe generalized slowing is present. No focal slowing is present .


PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
None

EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.

ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
No tests of reactivity (visual, auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli) are performed.


EVENTS:
Clinical: Throughout the recording, there are numerous body jerks that are reported by the technician and seen on camera. These occur 1-3 times every ten seconds . The patient' s head and upper trunk are seen to jerk on camera.	The rest of the body is not in frame of camera.
EEG: There is movement artifact that correlates with body jerks, but no underlying epileptiform activity.

HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 102 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.

IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal routine EEG due to:
	•	Moderate-to-severe generalized slowing
	•	Suboptimal organization
	•	Numerous body jerks reported by the technician and seen on camera. These have no EEG correlate other than movement artifact.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings indicate the presence of moderate-to-severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which may in part be associated with a medication effect.	A follow up prolonged study may be performed as clinically indicated to assess for further background features (i.e., state changes, variability) and
response to tests of reactivity.	The numerous body jerks seen by the tech and captured on video have no EEG correlate other than movement artifact.




