HISTORY:

26 y.o. female with a history of seizues since childhood.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily. 50 mg qHS x1wk, 100
mg qHS x1 wk, 50 mg qam and 100 mg qpm x1 wk, 100 mg BID



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with fair cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


A single ~ 3 minute event is captured.  It occurs out of drowsiness.  Clinically, there is no movement
at the onset of the event.  When the technologist asks the patient to relax her jaw, she appears to be
confused and not responding to commands/ questions very quickly.  Electrographically, patient
demonstrates a normal awake background throughout the episode.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:





This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy 1 hour  routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.

A single ~3 minute event that is associated with some confusion and slow reactivity has no abnormal
ictal correlate.  Of note, this event does no represent patient's typical event semiology.
