HISTORY:

19 y.o. male with a history of single seizure, after exposure to provocation factors
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

divalproex (DEPAKOTE DR) 500 mg tablet, daily

cephalexin (KEFLEX) 500 mg capsule, TAKE 1 CAPSULE THREE TIMES A DAY



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  This is a
useful, high amplitude record with posterior slow waves of youth




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
POSTS , sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


In sleep or drowsiness, there are discrete right anterotemporal sharp and slow wave complexes noted.
These have an F8 maximum.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Sleep morphologies are high amplitude, sometimes with spindle activity with anterior spread and a
suggestion of a bifrontal sharp wave but no definitive sharp and slow-wave complex



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Elicits generous, high amplitude frontal slowing.  The hyperventilation response
is quite sustained but there is no definitive spike and slow wave complex



Photic Stimulation: Minimal driving was noted



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.





IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1.  Right temporal sharp waves and spikes identified in drowsiness and sleep.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings be correlated with history and imaging.  They support a localization-related
mechanism for epilepsy.  The sleep morphology is very sharply contoured but there was not a
definitive bifrontal spike
