HISTORY:

67 y.o. female with a history of medically intractable epilepsy of right posterior
quadrant origin with complex partial seizures (head turn to right, right facial twitch, confusion),
treated in the ICU, now referred for repeat routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.




MEDICATIONS: Lopressor, Topamax, Vimpat, Protonix, Zosyn, Lexapro, Synthroid, Aldactone,
Lipitor, Keppra, Ativan, Xifaxan, Coreg



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The background is continuous and symmetric and consists of diffuse delta with admixed theta.




There is no posterior dominant rhythm.

Sleep transients are not seen.


There is no clear reactivity, variability, or state change.



Severe generalized slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY & EVENTS:

1. Continuous 0.5-1 Hz right posterior quadrant maximal (P4/T6 max) periodic discharges with broad
field and associated rhythmicity (LPD+R)


These discharges frequently evolve in frequency from 1 Hz to 2 Hz, then 3 Hz before decreasing to 1
Hz. There is no spread to other regions. There is no associated clinical change.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal portable EEG due to:


1. Severe generalized slowing, with disorganized background and lack of reactivity

2. Continuous right posterior quadrant periodic discharges

3. Frequent subclinical right posterior quadrant seizures



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of ongoing focal seizure activity of right posterior quadrant
origin superimposed on a severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


These findings were communicated to the treating team.
