HISTORY:

93 y.o. female with a history of dementia and

vasovagal episodes, HTN, GERD, "blind in eye" who was admitted


after a syncopal episode and referred for routine EEG for

evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS: SEROQUEL, PROTONIX, HEPARIN, HCTZ, HALDOL


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a


symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric

and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal


anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is

present but suboptimal.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,

sleep spindles and K-complexes. However, intermittent asymmetry

in POSTS during sleep; they appear higher in amplitude on the


right.  Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Asymmetry of POSTS in sleep; they appear higher in amplitude


over the right

2. Suboptimal organization



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are nonspecific and suggestive of left occipital

dysfunction. Question is raised as to the patient's history of


blindness and whether it is monocular - clinical correlation is

advised. Alternatively, in the appropriate clinical scenario,


these findings could also be consistent with a history of skull

defect over the right occiput.

Suboptimal organization is a nonspecific indicator of mild

diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
