HISTORY:

78 y.o. female with a history of

meningioma, now presents with change in mental status, concerning


for seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Ativan in ED




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically




satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:

There is no PDR or AP gradient.



The majority of the background consists of a mixture of

polymorphic theta and delta activity.  Nearly continuous high

amplitude EMG artifact is present over the right sagittal leads -


it obscures large portion of the recording.



During a very brief period of quiescence captured early in the

recording, the background consists of a mixture of polymorphic

theta and delta activity and brief periods of the background

discontinuity.



Right midtemporal polymorphic delta activity is captured early in


the recording - due to the prominent EMG artifact presence of

this activity cannot be ascertained in the rest of the recording.





Sleep is not captured.




No clear electrographic seizures are captured.




ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.





EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

1. Moderate diffuse slowing


2. Severe right midtemporal slowing

3. EMG artifact - right frontal and temporal region - present for

nearly entire recording

4. No electrographic seizures.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal portable 23-minute EEG due to moderate

diffuse slowing and suggestion of focal right midtmporal slowing.


Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral


dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.



Focal slowing is suggestive of a focal cerebral dysfunction that

is nonspecific in etiology.


Presence of large amount of EMG artifact over primarily right


frontal and temporal regions limits interpretation over those

regions and subtle seizures could have been missed.
