HISTORY:

61 y.o. male with a history of left subdural hematoma s/p craniotomy and
localization related epilepsy referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.



MEDICATIONS: received 4 mg Ativan



SEDATION: as above



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous, reactive, and asymmetric.

The right hemisphere consists of a fairly organized mixture of alpha and beta, with admixed excess
theta, and with a reactive posterior dominant rhythm of 10-11 Hz.




The left hemisphere consists of delta and theta, at times quasi-rhythmic, with superimposed fast
frequencies that are higher in amplitude and more sharply contoured, particularly over the left fronto-
temporal region.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and further
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Continuous left hemispheric polymorphic, at times quasirhythmic, slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 102 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Continuous left hemispheric polymorphic, at times quasirhythmic, slowing


3. Superimposed fast frequencies over the left hemipshere that are higher in amplitude and more
sharply contoured, particularly over the left fronto-temporal region, consistent with breach rhythm

4. Tachycardia noted on a single EKG lead.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left hemispheric dysfunction, likely structural in etiology,
superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.





Breach rhythm is consistent with this patient's known history of craniotomy.

Tachycardia is noted on a single EKG lead.


Background findings are similar to those documented in 2014 LTM study.
