DATE OF STUDY: 06/28/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 40-60 min, awake and asleep




HISTORY:

a 20 y.o. male with a history of intellectual disability, autism and epilepsy referred
for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events (staring)



MEDICATIONS:


multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes.



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) 1-2.5 second bursts of 3.5-5 Hz generalized (mostly frontally-
predominant but rarely occipitally-predominant) irregular spike- and polyspike-and-wave activity, in
wake and sleep. In sleep they tend to superimpose on K-complexes (dyshormia). There is no clear
clinical correlate but patient is not tested during them.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving at 5 Hz and 7 Hz (subharmonic driving at the latter frequency), which is a
normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep 1-hr EEG due to:





1. Occasional bursts of generalized irregular spike- and polyspike-and-wave activity, as detailed
above, without clear clinical correlate



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of generalized epileptiform potentials.




Attending Epileptologist: 

I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.



