HISTORY:

31 y.o. female with a history of overdose, long ICU course. Good recovery.
Then TC seizure two weeks ago.  Now  referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

acetaminophen-codeine (TYLENOL #3) 300-30 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily
as needed for Pain.


metoprolol (LOPRESSOR) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

nadolol (CORGARD) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


ondansetron (ZOFRAN, AS HYDROCHLORIDE,) 4 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 8 hours as
needed for Nausea.

clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily as needed for Anxiety.


cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily as needed for Muscle
spasms.
ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 600 mg tablet,

lithium 300 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).


diazepam (VALIUM) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth 2 times daily.



TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5  Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. POSTS are seen which are initially more
remarkable on the right.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, POSTS  and synchronous  sleep spindles and K-
complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Photic Stimulation: vigorous driving was seen which is at times slightly asymmetric, R>L or visa
versa.

EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This EEG is within normal limits. The asymmetry in photic stimulation is not outside the limits of
normal. No epileptiform features were seen.  This EEG is improved compared to a prior study in Jan
2016- slowing has resolved.  Neither had spikes.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
