HISTORY:

a 52 y.o. male with a history of profound mental

retardation, cerebral palsy, and epilepsy referred for routine


EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS: Tegretol, Gabitril, Xanax



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:




The waking background is characterized by the presence of a

suboptimally organized symmetric mixture of sharply contoured


alpha, beta, and theta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive

7-8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal


anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is

present but suboptimal.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and further

diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Frequent bi-frontal spike-and-wave and sharp-and-wave


discharges (Fp1, Fp2, Fz max) are seen in wake and sleep. At

times these appear fragmented in sleep and are seen better over


the left.

2. Occasional bi-occipital sharp waves (O1, O2 max)


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 94 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Frequent bi-frontal spike-and-wave and sharp-and-wave

discharges (Fp1, Fp2, Fz max) are seen in wake and sleep. At

times these appear fragmented in sleep and are seen better over


the left.

3. Occasional bi-occipital sharp waves (O1, O2 max)



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of epileptogenic discharges

originating from the left frontal and bilateral occipital


regions. Although at times the frontal discharges appeared equal

in amplitude over the right and left frontal leads, other times


they were seen better over the left frontal leads, suggesting

rapid bisynchrony phenomenon.
