HISTORY:

21 y.o. male who presents after a first seizure 4 days ago (loss of consciousness,
shaking/flexion of arms, followed by confusion) referred for routine EEG for characterization of
seizures.




MEDICATIONS: None



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically inadequate
record, with continuous electrode artifact over O1 (and transiently over F7, F8). The study included a
single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:






The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with bursts of polymorphic sharply contoured delta activity (at times
more prominent over left hemisphere), with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but
suboptimal.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing with theta frequencies are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




Mild generalized slowing is present.

Occasional sharply contoured right posterior quadrant slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) bursts of diffuse irregular spike and wave at 3-4 Hz for <2 seconds

2. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left temporal (T3 max) spike-and-wave



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
bursts of delta slowing that shift between hemispheres



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal, though technically inadequate, awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization




2. Bursts of polymorphic delta activity in wake, at times more prominent over left hemisphere

3. Occasional sharply contoured right posterior quadrant slowing


4. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) bursts of diffuse irregular spike and wave at 3-4 Hz for <2 seconds

5. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left temporal (T3 max) spike-and-wave



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of left temporal as well as diffuse epileptogenic potential,
superimposed on right posterior quadrant and left hemispheric dysfunction, and mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, etiologically nonspecific.
