HISTORY:

a 96 y.o. male with a history of fall, acute kidney injury, mental status change,
referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Facility-Administered Medications:

dextrose 5 % water IV bolus

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg


dextrose 50% injection 25 mL

dextrose 50% injection 50 mL

glucagon (human recombinant) (GLUCAGEN) injection 1 mg


sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion

amLODIPine (NORVASC) tablet 5 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically unsatisfactory
record due to excessive muscle artifact and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The patient was awake, moving, talking, with eyes open. Much of the tracing was entirely obscured
by muscle artifact. Muscle artifact subsided for only up about 10-20 seconds during the entire study,
during which time eye blink artifact and low to medium amplitude generalized irregular theta activity
and frontal central beta were seen.




Sleep is not captured



Within the limits of the study, no definite focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

EKG monitor demonstrated an irregular supraventricular rhythm of 70-80/m.



IMPRESSION:

The tracing is technically limited and largely unreadable secondary to excessive muscle artifact
obscuring most of the underlying cerebral electrical activity. During very brief portions of the tracing
during which muscle activity subsided, there appeared to be nonspecific diffuse background slowing.
If clinically indicated, a repeat tracing with sedation may provide additional helpful information.













































































