HISTORY:

This is a 83 y.o. female admitted for continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG) monitoring
with a history of: paroxysmal events of unclear etiology and psychomotor slowing.




Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Screening for subclinical seizures.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;






- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient’s exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case.  Impedances were measured and verified to be
below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to
computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest
and reviewed in detail.





Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.






The  spike and seizure detection computer program was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.
Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as
selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS: Keppra 250 q12h



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits:


anastrozole (ARIMIDEX) tablet 1 mg

amLODIPine (NORVASC) tablet 5 mg

aspirin EC tablet 81 mg


valsartan (DIOVAN) tablet 80 mg

citalopram (CELEXA) tablet 10 mg

cyclopentolate (CYCLODRYL) 1 % ophthalmic solution 1 drop


docusate sodium (COLACE) capsule 100 mg

furosemide (LASIX) tablet 20 mg

isosorbide mononitrate (IMDUR) 24 hr tablet 30 mg



loratadine (CLARITIN) tablet 10 mg

prednisoLONE acetate (PRED FORTE) 1 % ophthalmic suspension 1 drop


sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg


dextrose 50% injection 25 mL

dextrose 50% injection 50 mL

glucagon (human recombinant) (GLUCAGEN) injection 1 mg

insulin lispro (HumaLOG) injection 1-5 Units


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 125 mg




SEDATION: None


DAY 1 (11/15/2016, 11:53 - 11/16/2016, 06:00)



AEDs: Keppra reduced to 125 mg q12h



BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha, beta, and delta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 6.5-7 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but
suboptimal.





Drowsiness is characterized by attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and
further slowing of the background.

Sleep is characterized by synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes.



Mild-moderate generalized slowing is present.

Frequent left hemispheric (temporal maximal) polymorphic slowing is present, which becomes near
continuous in drowsiness and sleep.




PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None present



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.





EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events were reported or detected.



DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:



This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to:

1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Frequent left hemispheric (temporal maximal) polymorphic slowing, becoming near continuous in
drowsiness and sleep


3. Irregular heart rate and bradycardia




These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of the presence of left hemispheric (temporal
predominant) dysfunction superimposed on a mild-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


Bradycardia with occasionally irregular heart rate is noted in a single EKG lead.



-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 2 (11/16/2016, 06:00 - 11/17/2016, 06:00)



AEDs: Keppra held



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: no change


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



SEIZURES/EVENTS:




There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 50s-60s, occasionally irregular



DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

No change compared with day 1




-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 3 (11/17/2016, 06:00 - 11/17/2016, 11:04)


AEDs: Keppra held



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: no change.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


SEIZURES/EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 50s-60s, occasionally irregular



-----------------------------------------------------------------



SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:



INTERICTAL FINDINGS:  The patient’s interictal findings were significant for mild to moderate
generalized slowing and suboptimal organization, with frequent left hemispheric (temporal maximal)
polymorphic slowing, becoming near continuous in drowsiness and sleep. Bradycardia with
occasionally irregular heart rate was additionally noted.




ICTAL FINDINGS:

The patient did not have any clinical events.



SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:

1. No seizures captured



EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:

1. No seizures captured



CONCLUSION:

was admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 3 days with continuous video EEG.
This was an elective EMU monitoring session for screening for subclinical seizures in the setting of
episodes of loss of consciousness superimposed on psychomotor slowing/confusion.




The interictal EEG is consistent with left hemispheric (temporal predominant) dysfunction
(etiologically nonspecific) superimposed on a mild-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.



There were no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



The patient was weaned off Keppra over the course of her admission. No other medication changes
were made during the hospitalization.



Patient will follow-up at the Temple Epilepsy Center as an outpatient.
