HISTORY:

a 29 y.o. female with a history of seizures,

1-2x/year, characterized by dizziness, disorientation, followed


by convulsions and vomiting, who is currently in her first

trimester, referred for routine EEG for characterization of

seizures.



MEDICATIONS: None



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Frequent runs of sharply contoured theta waves at 5-6 Hz are

captured in the bitemporal regions, both synchronously and


independently during drowsiness. These are most consistent with a

benign variant (wicket waves).


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION / CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep one hour EEG.  There are no


clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.  The

sharply contoured theta waves described above are most consistent


with a benign variant.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.

