HISTORY:

57 y.o. female with a history of epilepsy since childhood. Her last seizure
occurred approximately 20 years ago. The patient also reports gradually worsening daily tremors for
the past year. She was referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


primidone (MYSOLINE) 250 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. 1 tab and 1/2 am 1/2 pm

denosumab (PROLIA) 60 mg/mL Syringe, Inject 60 mg into the skin every 6 months.

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D-3) 2,000 unit Tablet, Take  by mouth.


multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take  by mouth. Indications: Dose/Sig unknown


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence symmetric and reactive but poorly sustained
9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). A large amount of medium amplitude generalized 18-25
Hz activity was seen, maximum anteriorly. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present. A large amount of muscle artifact was seen intermittently throughout the
tracing.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) bursts of high amplitude 2-4/s spike-wave and polyspike-wave were
seen, with burst duration 0.5-2 seconds. These appeared subclinical with the patient able to repeat
short phrases given by the EEG technician when the bursts occurred.




ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 48-55 bpm with frequent PVCs is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Brief paroxysmal 2-4/s spike and polyspike-wave discharges which appeared subclinical.


2. Excessive beta activity was seen which may be secondary to the patient taking primidone.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of a generalized irritative disturbance of cerebral activity such
as that seen with primary generalized epilepsy. The patient was not noted to have any of her tremors
which have reportedly been present over the past year.
