HISTORY:

This is a 60 y.o. right handed male admitted for continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG)
monitoring with a history of: refractory epilepsy.




Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Characterization of seizures.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;






- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient's exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Additionally, T1, T2,  electrodes were placed in this patient.  Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in
this case.  Impedances were measured and verified to be below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was
recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to computer hard drive.  Periods of
interest  Can be subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest and reviewed in detail.







Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.





The spike and seizure detection computer program was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.
Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as
selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS:


Lamictal, CBZ, gabapentin

SEDATION: None


CLINICAL: The patient had been admitted from an outside hospital for an increase in seizures.  On
admission, he was found to have a low-grade fever.  Over the first 24 hours of EEG monitoring, he
began to vomit.  Sleep was markedly disrupted.


DAY 1 ( 7/23/2016, 1:30 AM start time  )


BACKGROUND:


The waking background is markedly abnormal and consists of a 2 patterns.  One of them is primarily a
6-7 Hz theta pattern.


Posterior dominant rhythm was present, but equivocal in terms of whether or not it reacts to eye
opening.  There is anterior to posterior gradient.






This pattern is intermittently interrupted by bursts of high amplitude, irregular, slow wave activity.
These bursts look like spike and wave activity but, there is not always a spike in it.  It is primarily a
notched frontal delta pattern of 2.5-4 Hz


The background is reactive, variable.



There were no major  asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.  There is shifting arrhythmic delta
noted from either hemisphere



Sleep was characterized by slowing.  The spike and wave discharges, or the high amplitude delta
bursts may slow to 2 Hz. The sleep pattern usually resembles the slow spike and wave pattern, but
there were scant Vertex waves and slow spindles.




PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

FIRDA


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

In addition to the frontally predominant notched delta, isolated right or left sharp waves can be noted
in either hemisphere, noted infrequently, T3, T4, C3


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Verbal stimulation produces an alerting.  Does not impact hte EEG

EVENTS: No definitive  clinical or electrographic events were reported or detected.


Mental status testing was performed during the bursts of generalized slowing as well as during the
theta pattern.  He has psychomotor slowing during both patterns. It was not possible to determine
whether he is more impaired during the bursts.


DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Markedly abnormal background.


Because of the patient's slowed mentation, it is difficult to discern if he has impairment with the
bursts of frontally predominant delta, notched delta or spike and wave activity.

The combination of slow background, focal and generalized epileptiform activity suggests a chronic,
early developmental epilepsy process.


None of the seizures, as described in the outside hospital, were recorded.

-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 2 (7/24/2016, 06:00 - 7/25/2016, 06:00)



AEDs: initially Carbamazepine and Lamictal; then VPA

Clinical: The patient was vomiting. The CBZ level dropped and the patient was loaded with VPA,
achieving level of 99




INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

The background transitions between a 7 Hz theta pattern and a high amplitude frontal 3 Hz delta
with a questionable notched pattern, sometimes maximal at  Fp1, F3




Sleep is variable. Some sleep patterns are identical to the wake slow delta pattern.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Slow diffuse spike and wave, frontally predominant

2. Notched frontal delta- 3 Hz

3. Occasional left temporal sharp waves (F7,  T3 max)


4. Occasional right temporal sharp waves (T4-T6 max)

5. Occasional left frontal sharp waves (F3 max)

6. Rare left posterior quadrant sharp waves (T5, P3 max)



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

FIRDA



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: none

SEIZURES/EVENTS:


There was one  Clinical event captured during this section of the study.

8:59:22 AM 1:26 duration.

CLINICAL: The patient had been vomiting. He was awake, holding something in his hand. As the
seizure starts, he seems to shift, as if he is trying to push himself to sit forward. He seems to be shifting
about as his hands come forward and his head bobs forward.  However, these behaviors are seen as
he is going into a tonic clonic seizure with characteristic muscle artifact seen at 8:59:32. His legs
extend, he blinks and turns head to left at 8:59:40. He is grimacing. The right arm is clonic; the left
arm under the covers seems to be tonic. The tonic clonic activity slows, the seizure ends with ongoing
jerking on the right.  The very last jerk is bilateral adduction of the legs.   The patient is somnolent
for more than 30 minutes.





ICTAL pattern: there are two sharp waves T2, then one T1 (similar to background) followed by frontal
muscle which may be masking frontal beta, then beta/theta the artifact of a tonic clonic seizure which
gradually slows as the seizure ends. Prolonged post ictal attenuation transitions to a slow spike wave
pattern.



EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s, increasing to 120 during the seizure. The
tachycardia persists for more than 30 minutes.


DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This section of the Long term EEG was remarkable for more of a transition to the frontal
delta/notched delta/spike and wave pattern.  Contributing factors can include concurrent illness or
sleep deprivation.

The Tonic clonic seizure had some clear focal features and some, with head turning to the right and
R facial grimacing, but the ictal pattern was obscured by muscle artifact.



-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 3 (7/25/2016, 06:00 - 7/26/2016, 06:00)



AEDs: VPA again loaded 1 g, changed to 500 mg q12h

Ativan 0.5 mg ordered x2



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

Unchanged compared with day prior - occasionally a fairly organized background with 7-8 Hz
posterior dominant rhythm is seen, but more often during wakefulness the background is replaced
with excess of polymorphic and quasirhythmic delta.




There is no change in background rhythms with administration of Ativan.


There is no clear correlation between patient's behavior and presence of spike-wave on EEG.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, which are seen only occasionally - synchronous
and symmetric sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Unchanged compared with day prior


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


Unchanged

Rarely left and right temporal sharp waves occur synchronously.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


SEIZURES/EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s



-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 4 (7/26/2016, 06:00 - 7/26/2016, 13:35)



AEDs: VPA increased to 750 mg q12h



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

Occasionally a fairly organized background with 7-8 Hz posterior dominant rhythm is seen - this
background is seen with increasing prevalence on this day compared with the excess of polymorphic
and quasirhythmic delta.




There is no clear correlation between patient's behavior and presence of spike-wave on EEG.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, which are seen only occasionally - synchronous
and symmetric sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Unchanged compared with day prior



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Unchanged

Rarely left and right temporal sharp waves occur synchronously.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s






-----------------------------------------------------------------


FINAL IMPRESSION:




This is an abnormal video EEG due to:



1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization, with background alternating between 7-8
Hz theta/alpha and high amplitude frontal 3 Hz delta


2. Slow diffuse spike and wave, frontally predominant

3. Occasional left temporal sharp waves (T3 max)

4. Occasional right temporal sharp waves (T4-T6 max)


5. Occasional left frontal sharp waves (F3 max)

6. Occasional left posterior quadrant sharp waves (T5, P3 max)

7. Convulsive seizure captured 7/24



FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of multifocal epileptogenic potentials superimposed on a mild
diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Slow spike and wave with multifocal epileptogenic potential and mild
diffuse slowing are diagnostic of a symptomatic generalized epilepsy. A single seizure was captured
on 7/24 as above.  As the study progresses, prevalence of diffuse spike-wave decreased.
