HISTORY:

35 y.o. female with a history of complicated migraine (R or L hemisensory
symptoms) referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 25 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.

metoclopramide (REGLAN) 10 mg tablet, Take one at the onset of a headache


diphenhydrAMINE (BENADRYL) 25 mg capsule, Take one at the onset of a bad headache with the
reglan

SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
POSTS, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


There is abundant bilateral occipital polymorphic slowing.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Abundant bilateral occipital polymorphic slowing.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of bilateral occipital cerebral dysfunction, which may be
structural or physiologic in origin.
