HISTORY:

31 y.o. female with a history of new onset

seizure 3 weeks ago: LOC without witness and woke up with L side


of tongue bitten (not witnessed), referred for routine EEG

for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and




included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically


with eye opening.



Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces bilaterally

synchronous slow waves. Patient complains of chest pressure and

dry mouth after HV.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake only routine EEG.  There are no clinical


or electrographic events reported or detected.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake only routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.


If clinically warranted, a recording with sleep may be helpful.

