HISTORY:

58 y.o. female with a history of  multiple


episodes of loss of consciousness. She does not get any warning.

No shaking during the spells. They are brief. Always fall to the

left side. No loss of bowels/bladder. No tongue bite. She feels


normal after the episodes- denies confusion  referred for routine

EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.  History of

sensorineural hearing loss and vestibular dysfunction



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


traZODone (DESYREL) 50 mg tablet,

cetirizine (ZYRTEC) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.

Omeprazole 20 mg Tablet, Delayed Release (E.C.), Take 20 mg by


mouth 2 times daily (before meals). (Patient taking differently:




Take 20 mg by mouth daily.)

citalopram (CELEXA) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.


fluticasone (FLONASE) 50 mcg/Actuation nasal spray, 1 spray by

Nasal route as needed.


omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule,

OXYCODONE HCL/ACETAMINOPHEN (PERCOCET PO), Take  by mouth as

needed. DOSE UNKNOWN

trazodone (DESYREL) 100 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth nightly as


needed.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HVand

photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).

The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and


amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.  There is generous beta



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

See below



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric

background slowing.  There is an increase in amplitude and


generous beta



Photic Stimulation:  Performed as the patient is becoming

drowsy, there is an asynchronous driving response with some

shifting slowing.  There are no definitive epileptiform

discharges between the bursts, there is some 5 Hz, notched theta


noted in the central regions left greater than right.  There is

also a harmonic and subharmonic driving



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is an unusual but not necessarily pathological routine EEG


due to:

1. asymmetric driving response



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are not outside of the realm of normal.  They are

somewhat unusual.  If epilepsy is an important consideration, a


more prolonged study may be of value.  Alternatively, an

ambulatory EEG might also be of use.  The supra-harmonic driving


responses a normal variant the generous beta noted in this record

may be part of this patient's medications
