History:	53 year old woman with complex partial seizures and generalized convulsions.
	
	Of note, patient was admitted to Temple EMU in 10/2013 and independent left 
	temporal and right occipital seizures were captured.
Medications:	Keppra, Remeron
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake, 
	drowsy, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm consists of 10 Hz alpha posteriorly with expected AP gradient.  
There is asymmetry of the occipital alpha rhythm voltage that is greater than 50%, with higher 
voltages over the left.  Patient becomes drowsy but does not fall asleep.
Frequent polymoprhic and rhythmic (TIRDA) delta activity is noted over the left anterior temporal 
region.  It is more pronounced during drowsiness.  Intermittent left anterior temporal/ frontal sharp 
waves with aftergoing slow waves are captured, primarily during drowsiness.  Maximal scalp 
negativity occurs over Fp1 < F7/T1/T3 leads.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) 
induces symmetric photic driving at multiple flash rates.
Summary of Findings:
	Asymmetry, alpha, >50% higher in ampl over L
	Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left temporal, anterior, frontal and ant temporal
	TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity), intermittent, left temporal, anterior
	Sharp waves, intermittent, left, frontal and anterior temporal
Interpretation:
This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 1 hour EEG due to (1) intermittent polymorphic and 
rhythmic focal slowing over the left anterior temporal region; (2) intermittent left frontal< anterior 
temporal epileptiform discharges that are more pronounced during drowsiness and (3) greater than 
50% lower voltage of posterior dominant rhythm over the RIGHT.  There is likely a focal structural 
potentially epileptogenic lesion over the left anterior temporal region.  Additional, there is 
suggestion of focal cerebral abnormality over the right occipital region.
	

