HISTORY:

43 y.o. male with a history of seizure disorder since 1996, resection of 2 right
temporal AVMs in November 2010, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.
Seizures consist of staring episodes lasting approximately 30 seconds, with most recent episode one
week ago.




MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

phenobarbital (LUMINAL)

levetiracetam (KEPPRA)


OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL)

topiramate (TOPAMAX)

sildenafil (REVATIO)




No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of rhythmic and reactive 9 Hertz posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR) which was significantly better developed on the left. Low amplitude 20-30 Hz
activity was seen bilaterally, maximum over frontocentral regions. Continuous irregular low to
medium and medium amplitude 1.5-3 Hz irregular slowing was seen over the right hemisphere,
maximum over the central and temporal regions. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) spikes and sharp
waves were seen in the mid temporal region on the right, phase reversing at T4.





During drowsiness,attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and increased
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 55 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous slowing and disorganization over the right hemisphere, maximum over central and
temporal regions.


2. Occasional right mid temporal spike and sharp wave discharges, at T4.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of a functional disturbance of cerebral activity involving the
right hemisphere with right mid temporal potentially epileptogenic spike and sharp wave discharges.
In a patient with history of seizures, these abnormalities would be suggestive of localization-related
seizures originating in the right temporal region. Clinical correlation is recommended.
