HISTORY:

64 y.o. female with a history of seizures, seizure free for 40 years, breast cancer,
now with headaches (L temporal, also diffuse) referred for routine EEG for characterization of
seizures.


MEDICATIONS: none



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.






During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Frequent left > right temporal polymorphic slowing is present. At times the left temporal slowing is
sharply contoured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left anterior temporal (F7>T1/T3) sharp waves are noted in drowsiness
and sleep. These are felt most likely based on morphology to represent a benign variant (wicket
waves).


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Frequent left > right temporal polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:




These findings indicate the presence of a bitemporal (left > right) cerebral dysfunction (structural or
physiologic in origin).


The left anterior temporal sharp waves noted above are felt most likely to represent a benign variant
based on morphology. However, if question of epileptogenic potential remains, a repeat study may
be of benefit.
