HISTORY:

22 y.o. male with a history of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


risperiDONE (RISPERDAL) 0.25 mg tablet, Take 2 mg by mouth daily. Indications: SCHIZOPHRENIA

diazepam (VALIUM) 2 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth nightly.

divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: valium



TECHNIQUE:




A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.



The background over the left consists of 10 Hz posterior dominant rhythm with the expected AP
(anterior-to-posterior) gradient.



The background over the right consists of 9-10 Hz unstable polymorphic posterior dominant rhythm,
poor AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient, and continuous polymorphic and rhythmic ( TIRDA) delta
activity over the right frontotemporal<<temporal region.




Symmetrical sleep spindles and vertex waves are captured





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) right anterior temporal (F8/T2) and temporal-central (T4/C4) moderate-
to-high amplitude sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are captured.  Their frequency increases
during sleep.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with poor cooperation and produces
no effect.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Frequent right anterior temporal and temporal-central epileptiform discharges


2. continuous moderate focal slowing over the right anterior quadrant (most prominent over the
temporal region)



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of a potential epileptogenic focus that is structural in etiology.
