HISTORY:

a 56 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy in

the setting of NF1 and TBI, referred for routine EEG for


characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

Psyllium Seed-Sucrose (METAMUCIL) Powder, Take  by mouth.

hydrOXYzine (ATARAX) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth every 6


hours as needed for Itching.

HYDROcodone-acetaminophen (NORCO) 5-325 mg per tablet, Take 1

tablet by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain.


Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Capsule, Take

by mouth.

naproxen (NAPROSYN) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times


daily (with meals).




hydrOXYzine (VISTARIL) 25 mg capsule, Take 25 mg by mouth 2 times

daily.


loperamide (IMODIUM A-D) 2 mg tablet, Take 2 mg by mouth 4 times

daily as needed for Diarrhea.


prochlorperazine (COMPAZINE) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth

every 6 hours as needed.

senna-docusate (SENNOSIDES-DOCUSATE SODIUM) 8.6-50 mg per tablet,

Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2

times daily.


Melatonin 1 mg Tablet, Take  by mouth.

terazosin (HYTRIN) 2 mg capsule, Take 2 mg by mouth nightly.

docusate sodium (COLACE) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 2

times daily.


finasteride (PROSCAR) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.

folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth daily.


sertraline (ZOLOFT) 100 mg tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth daily.

oxcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 600 mg tablet, Take 600 mg by mouth 2

times daily.

ketoconazole (NIZORAL) 2 % shampoo, Apply  topically daily as


needed for Itching.

phenobarbital (LUMINAL) 32.4 mg tablet, Take 3 tablets by mouth


nightly.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous, reactive, and asymmetric,


with a posterior dominant rhythm of 7-8 Hz, better seen over the

right.


The right hemisphere is characterized by a fairly organized

mixture of alpha and beta, with mild excess of delta frequencies.


The left hemisphere is characterized by a fairly organized

mixture of alpha and beta with continuous sharply contoured delta


frequencies.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and further


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.


Mild generalized slowing is present.

There is continuous left hemispheric slowing, temporal


predominant.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) left fronto-temporal (F7-T1 max)

sharp and wave discharges are seen, activated by drowsiness.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180


seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric

background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Continuous left hemispheric slowing, temporal predominant

3. Frequent left fronto-temporal sharp and wave discharges,


activated by drowsiness



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left fronto-temporal

epileptogenic potentials superimposed on left hemispheric

(temporal predominant) dysfunction and mild diffuse cerebral


dysfunction.

