HISTORY:

17 y.o. male with a history of GSW to the occipital region, now presents with
headaches and events of flushing lights.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

oxyCODONE (ROXICODONE) 5 mg immediate release tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 8 hours
as needed for Pain for up to 40 doses.


traMADol (ULTRAM) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain for up to
30 days.


famotidine (PEPCID) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours for 360 days.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours for 360 days.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal
anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes and a brief epoch of slow wave sleep was not captured.



Subtle polymorphic theta activity is seen over the right posterior quadrant during wakefulness.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~70 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.





IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep 1 hour routine EEG due to:


1. Subtle mild focal slowing over the right posterior region that is seen during wakefulness.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly
structural in origin.



The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of
epilepsy.
