History:	86 year old woman who was admitted after a PEA code and underwent 
	hypothermia protocol.  She now has intermittent body jerking concerning for 
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG 
	electrodes, comatose
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  The background consists of a mixture of low amplitude 
polymorphic theta and delta activity and continuous high amplitude  diffuse, frontally maximal 
sharp waves with triphasic morphology.  These waveforms demonstrate an anterior to posterior 
phase lag.  They are rhythmic occuring at the frequency of ~ 0.75 Hz.  No normal sleep architecture
  At least 2 episodes of shaking are captured at the end of the recording.  Patient is poorly 
visualized during the first episode due to low room lighting.  During the second episode high 
frequency low amplitude side-to-side head tremors are noted.  The recording stops before the 
second episode ends.  They last ~1-2 minutes.  Electrographiclly, they are associated with semi-
rhythmic- rhythmic EMG artifact without alteration of the baseline background.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  There is no clear change in the 
background activity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
	Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
	No reactivity
	Triphasic waves, continuous, at ~0.75 Hz
	Event, two, no ictal EEG correlate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL portable 51 -minute comatose EEG due to (1) moderate diffuse slowing; (2) 
continuous ~0.75 Hz waveforms of triphasic morphilogy; (3) lack of clear background reactivity and 
(4) 2 events 1-2 min each of primarily head tremors without an abnormal ictal correlate.  Diffuse 
slowing, triphasics waveforms and lack of clear reactivity are indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral 
dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Lack of clear background reactivity is a poor 
prognostic indicator post anoxia.  Triphasic waves are a nonspecific EEG finding that can be seen 
in hepatic encephalopathy, uremia and anoxia.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology 


