
HISTORY:

83 y.o. male with a history of fevers, malaise,

afib w/ RVR, now s/p PEA arrest on 1/2/16 for ~22 min referred


for routine EEG for evaluation.


MEDICATIONS: no antiepileptics



SEDATION: None noted



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:




The background is continuous and symmetric but disorganized,

consisting of mostly delta with attenuated faster frequencies.


There is no clear reactivity, variability, or state change.

When the patient is noted to bite down on the tube, diffuse


muscle activity is seen but no clear change in underlying

cerebral background.


Severe diffuse slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional left fronto-temporal (F7, T3, F3) sharp waves with

triphasic morphology are present

2. Occasional synchronous and independent right fronto-central


(F4, C4) sharp waves with triphasic morphology are present

3. Frequent frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta


activity (FIRDA / GRDA) is seen at 2-2.5 Hz for runs < 10 seconds


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

An irregular heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG

lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal asleep only routine EEG due to:


1. Severe diffuse slowing and disorganization

2. Occasional left fronto-temporal (F7, T3, F3) sharp waves with


triphasic morphology

3. Occasional synchronous and independent right fronto-central


(F4, C4) sharp waves with triphasic morphology

4. Frequent frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta


activity (FIRDA / GRDA) is seen at 2-2.5 Hz for runs < 10 seconds


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left fronto-temporal and


independent right fronto-central epileptogenic potential

superimposed on severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


The morphology of the sharp waves is commonly seen in

toxic-metabolic states.

Frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity (GRDA,

also known as FIRDA) is a nonspecific but pathologic finding that


is most commonly seen in toxic-metabolic states, but may also be

seen with deep structural lesions or increased intracranial


pressure.

Clinical correlation is advised.
