DATE OF STUDY: 06/29/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: Inpatient, bedside

EEG TYPE: 20-40 min


HISTORY:

a 39 y.o. female with a history of pulmonary hypertension, awaiting lung
transplant, referred for bedside EEG for unresponsiveness, to rule out subclinical seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Flexeril, Gabapentin, Acetaminophen, Zosyn, Insulin, Atrovent Ipratropium, Theragran, Famotidine,
Lovenox, Vancomycin, Acetazolamide, (Phenobarbital - none recently)



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded at the bedside using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG





EEG BACKGROUND:


The patient was intubated, with a tracheostomy tube. The background is characterized by prominent
triphasic waves throughout the record, followed by runs of mixed frequency low to medium amplitude
1-8 Hz activity. Between the bursts of triphasic and after going medium amplitude activity are brief
periods of generalized amplitude attenuation lasting 1-2 seconds. There was no significant reactivity
of background to auditory or tactile stimulation.




Occasional medium to high amplitude sharp transients were seen near the vertex suggesting stage II
sleep activity.




No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: There is no change in the background activity to visual, auditory,
tactile, or noxious stimuli.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 150 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal bedside video EEG due to:

1. Triphasic activity


2. Diffuse background slowing

3. Poor reactivity of background to auditory and tactile stimulation




CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of generalized functional disturbances reflecting activity with
prominent triphasic activity most suggestive of metabolic encephalopathy (e.g. hepatic, hypoxic,
renal insufficiency). Clinical correlation is advised.t





Attending Epileptologist: 

I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.



































































