HISTORY:

36 y.o. female with a history of JME referred for routine EEG for characterization of
seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every morning.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days. Start 1 at
bedtime for 2 weeks, then 1 BID


folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3 times daily.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:






A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Synchronous and symmetric vertex waves are seen in sleep; stage II transients are not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) bursts of generalized, frontally predominant 5-Hz spike- and polyspike-
and-wave activity are seen in wakefulness and drowsiness.  Discrete bursts last up to 3 seconds but
occasionally occur <1 second apart, for a total duration of 5.5 seconds. In drowsiness spikes may
fragment, with equal predominance seen between the hemispheres.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produced
a single 1-second burst of diffuse sharply contoured theta activity.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces scant
symmetric photic driving, particularly at 9 Hz, which is a normal finding. There is no increase in burst
duration/prevalence during photic stimulation as compared with the rest of the study. There is no
photoparoxysmal response.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:



A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Frequent bursts of generalized, frontally predominant 5-Hz spike- and polyspike-and-wave activity


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are similar to prior EEGs and are consistent with this patient's diagnosis of juvenile
myoclonic epilepsy.
