HISTORY:

85 y.o. male with a history of subdural

hematoma and seizures, falls, referred for routine EEG for


characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS: Keppra



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.


There is abundant bitemporal synchronous and independent

sharply-contoured, quasi-rhythmic slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A single EKG lead captures an irregular heart rate.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Abundant bitemporal synchronous and independent


sharply-contoured, quasi-rhythmic slowing

2. An irregular heart rate captured on a single EKG lead.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of bitemporal cerebral

dysfunction.


Compared with the previous EEG report in 2/2016, the current

findings are similar but the prevalence of slowing over the right

temporal region is felt to be equal to that on the left.

An irregular heart rate is captured on a single EKG lead.
