HISTORY:

77 y.o. male who presented with syncope and fall

referred for routine EEG for evaluation.



MEDICATIONS: Lorazepam, Serax



SEDATION: as above


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG.  Despite multiple attempts at

stimulation, the patient woke up only very briefly during the

study.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The background is continuous, symmetric, and reactive. Most of


the study consists of drowsiness and sleep.  When stimulated, the

patient awakens very briefly but no posterior dominant rhythm is


seen. In the most awake state, the background consists of alpha,

beta, and theta frequencies with fair organization and no

definite posterior dominant rhythm.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



During drowsiness, further background slowing is seen.


There are no well formed sleep transients captured.



Throughout the study, glossokinetic and head movement artifact


recurs once every 1.5-2 seconds, corresponding with heavy

breathing with rocking head movements on the video.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

An irregular heartbeat is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and mostly asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization


2. Irregular heartbeat



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are nonspecific indicators of the presence of mild

diffuse cerebral dysfunction.

Evaluation of the waking background is somewhat limited by (1)


the minimal waking period despite repeated attempts by the

technician, and (2) by the recurrent artifact associated with


heavy breathing described above.

An irregular heartbeat is captured on a single EKG lead.
