HISTORY:

77 y.o. female with a history of long-standing epilepsy, cavernoma, dementia.  She
appears to be seizure-free referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

traMADol (ULTRAM) 50 mg tablet, Take once a day at the start of a bad headache, can try just 1/2
tab at first


aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.

naproxen (NAPROSYN) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) 60 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

ascorbic acid (VITAMIN C) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth daily.


hydrochlorothiazide (HYDRODIURIL) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth.

TECHNIQUE:






A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a somewhat  disorganized symmetric
mixture of alpha,theta  and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is
present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves.
Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Shifting focal delta, maximal in the temporal regions is present in the transition to drowsiness.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:    Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per
second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1.  Shifting slowing and background disorganization

CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are nonspecific and may be correlated with imaging.  No epileptiform features were
noted in this particular record.
