HISTORY:

27 y.o. female with a history of seizure in 2003 referred for routine EEG for follow
up EEG and medication management.



MEDICATIONS:


Keppra


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background demonstrates medium voltage symmetric and reactive 10-11 Hertz posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Low voltage frontally
predominant 18-30 Hz activity was seen. The patient was extremely anxious throughout the record,
with nearly continuous muscle and frontal eye movement artifact obscuring portions of the underlying
cerebral electrical activity. Occasional medium voltage bilateral temporal 6-7 Hz activity was seen
with distinction between rhythmic temporal theta of drowsiness and movement artifact difficult to
determine.






Sleep is not captured




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 108 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

Probably normal awake EEG.  As noted, the patient was anxious with excessive muscle and
movement artifact throughout the tracing. Intermittent theta frequency slowing may have represented
mild drowsiness versus movement artifact. There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or
detected.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:







A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. If clinically indicated, a
sleep deprived or more prolonged tracing capturing stage II sleep may provide additional helpful
information.
