HISTORY:

27 y.o. male who presented with a possible seizure (at work, next thing he knew
he was in ambulance with tongue bitten; eyes rolled back w/ LOC) referred for routine EEG for
evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


naproxen (NAPROSYN) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).

TRAZODONE HCL (TRAZODONE PO), Take  by mouth 2 times daily.

ALPRAZolam (XANAX) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth 3 times daily as needed.


CITALOPRAM HYDROBROMIDE (CELEXA PO), Take  by mouth daily. Pt. Is unaware of dose


SEDATION: as above



TECHNIQUE:






A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and excess beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present. Bilateral
parasagittal mu rhythm is seen in wakefulness.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing with bursts of theta activity are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY / EVENTS:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

A single bifrontal (R>L, Fp2 max) spike-and-wave discharge is captured in drowsiness. On video
review, a brief twitch of forehead muscles occurs within 200 msec after this discharge.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. A single bifrontal spike-and-wave discharge that precedes a brief facial twitch, as described above




CLINICAL CORRELATION:



The presence of a single discharge as described above is unclear significance. There may be
potential for epileptogenicity with a frontal focus and rapid secondary generalization. Alternatively, a
generalized focus cannot be ruled out. If clinically warranted, a study with sleep may be of benefit.


Excess beta activity can be seen in the setting of a medication effect.
