HISTORY:

69 y.o. male with a history of recent stroke,

now with episode of slurred speech.  He will be admitted to the


epilepsy monitoring unit and is referred for routine EEG for

characterization of seizures. Chronic infarction of the left

caudate head and anterior limb of


the left internal capsule.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

UNKNOWN TO PATIENT, BP medication



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was




recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

verbal stimulation.  This bedside EEG was remarkable for


significant chew artifact


EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8.5-9

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.  There is excess 6-8 Hz activity

in the waking background.



Limited drowsiness: slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.


Nearly continuous blinking and chewing was noted


Mild  generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is

present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 55 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a mildly abnormal awake only  routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.

1. mild excess of theta

CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.  A mild excess theta is a nonspecific finding and they


be correlated with clinical history, imaging and medications
