HISTORY:

65 y.o. male with a history cardiac arrest on

December 7, 2015, of heart failure and stroke.  Known to have


significant cerebral atrophy,  referred for routine EEG for

assessment of mental status change.



MEDICATIONS:

No seizure medicines




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and




included a single channel of EKG and no photic stimulation.

This is a bedside recording



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is  nearly symmetric symmetric, reactive,

and consists of a mixture of theta frequency activity was smaller

amounts of alpha and beta frequency activity.  The posterior

dominant rhythm is 5-7 Hz, reactive.  There is intermittent


delta, sometimes subtle  noted in the left hemisphere.  There is

intermittent disruption of faster frequency activity noted on the


left


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and an increase


in the diffuse background slowing are seen.  Faster frequency

activity drops down on the left before the right



Sleep rare spindle was noted




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: None

EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal routine EEG.;

Generalized background slowing


Underlying focal slowing in the left hemisphere with disruption

of faster frequency activity


There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or

detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This EEG supports a structural process on the left involving gray

and white matter, congruent with the stroke history.  The


generalized background slowing is nonspecific and can be seen in

the context of any diffuse cerebral disturbance including


underlying dementia or previous PEA code

This EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
