HISTORY:

36 y.o. female with a history of two possible seizures referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

amitriptyline (ELAVIL) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth nightly.

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 300 mg by mouth 3 times daily.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


Most of the study consists of sleep.



During very brief periods of wakefulness during which the technician had to arouse the patient, the
waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and an excess amount
of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed
during drowsiness, does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and mostly asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.






CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and mostly asleep routine EEG, remarkable only for short latency to falling
asleep.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.

Excess beta may be seen in the setting of certain medications (i.e., benzodiazepines, barbiturates).
