
HISTORY:

25 y.o. female with a history of seizures since 2/2009, most recently in 8/2016
(LOC, tongue biting, bladder incontinence, then postictal), referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS: None noted



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and excess beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 13 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


There is occasional bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing. The left temporal slowing is
occasionally sharply contoured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) right central spike/polyspike and wave discharges. These have a shifting
focus within the same burst - at times frontal (F4) maximal, other times parietal (P4) maximal



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and
produces no effect on the background, but may increase the prevalence of right central dicharges.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving at supra-harmonic frequencies, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:


1. Occasional bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing

2. Frequent right central spike/polyspike and wave discharges with a shifting focus



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of a right central potentially epileptogenic focus superimposed
on bitemporal cerebral dysfunction.





Excess beta may be seen in the setting of a medication effect such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.
