HISTORY:

55 y.o. female with a history of simple partial refractory seizures, status post right
posterior parietal epilepsy surgery in August, with an episode of right arm shaking during sleep one
week ago, referred for routine EEG for follow up EEG.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


alprazolam (XANAX) 0.5 mg tablet, Take 0.5 mg by mouth.

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth nightly.

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 100 mg 12 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.


lacosamide (VIMPAT) 200 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours.

zoledronic acid-mannitol&water (RECLAST) 5 mg/100 mL Solution, Inject 5 mg into the vein.

PREVIDENT 5000 SENSITIVE 1.1-5 % Paste,


multivitamin capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

Biotin 10,000 mcg Capsule, Take 10,000 mcg by mouth daily.

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D-3) 2,000 unit Capsule, Take  by mouth daily.




CALCIUM CARBONATE/VITAMIN D3 (CALCIUM 600 + D,3, PO), Take  by mouth.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


A skull defect was noted secondary to right posterior parietal craniotomy. The waking background is
characterized by the presence of rhythmic 9-10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) which was
significantly higher in amplitude and sharply contoured on the right. Posterior rhythmic activity was
reactive to eye opening and closing. Low voltage anteriorly predominant 20-30 Hz activity was also
seen. Moderate amounts of intermixed irregular 2-5 Hz activity were seen predominantly over
parieto-occipital scalp regions.





During brief periods of drowsiness, mild slowing of posterior rhythmic activity and intermixed shifting
irregular bilateral theta activity were seen..



Sleep is not captured



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:




1. Higher amplitude sharply contoured posterior rhythmic activity and intermixed slowing on the right,
likely secondary to breach rhythm from postoperative skull defect.



No clinical or electrographic seizures and no definite pathologic paroxysmal epileptiform activity
were recorded.
