DATE OF STUDY: 09/08/2015

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: Inpatient


EEG TYPE: Routine, awake and asleep

EEG #: 15-1309



HISTORY:

 a 52 y.o. female with a history of 3 aneurysm

repairs and subsequent seizures. She describes an aura with right


lip twitching or right eye closure, and 15-20 minutes of

bilateral upper extremity shaking and loss of consciousness.  She

also reports staring spells. She is here to evaluate for episodes


of shaking.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.

QUEtiapine (SEROQUEL) 200 mg tablet, Take 200 mg by mouth at


bedtime.

levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily.


metoprolol (TOPROL-XL) 50 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth




daily. Takes 3 tabs by mouth once daily.

diphenhydrAMINE (BENADRYL) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth as


needed for Sleep.

zolpidem (AMBIEN) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth nightly.


lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth

daily.

pantoprazole (PROTONIX) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth 2 times

daily. Takes 1/2 tab by mouth BID.


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

daily.


clonazepam (KLONOPIN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth 2 times

daily.

percocet



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) recording using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes was performed

utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory


record and included a single channel of EKG and photic

stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a


symmetric and reactive 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm

(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and


amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



There are normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric

sleep spindles and K-complexes present during Stage II sleep.


Slow wave sleep is not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.



There is abundant left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing and

occasional right synchronous, and at times, independent,

fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake-and-asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Abundant left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing


2. Occasional right synchronous, and at times, independent,

fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of

bilateral, left > right fronto-temporal cerebral dysfunction.





Attending Epileptologist: 

I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents

my findings and conclusions.





































































