DATE OF STUDY: 06/30/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient 785


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy





HISTORY:

a 41 y.o. male with a history of  previous brain tumor, hydrocephalus, headaches
and seizures referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 300 mg by mouth.

SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKGand verbal stimulation.  The
patient has craniotomy defects



EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of theta, alpha and a
moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.
Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.





Mild  generalized slowing is present.  There is skull artifact, but intermittent frontal left or right focal
slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Tactile stimulation elicits an alerting response



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of n/a bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a mildly abnormal  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or
detected.


1. Excess theta

2. In the context of frontal cranial defects, there is some intermittent frontal focal slowing

CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This  routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.  The background slowing
described above and the focal features may be correlated with neuroimaging and clinical features no
seizures were recorded



Attending Epileptologist: 


I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.
























































































