HISTORY:

70 y.o. male with a history of pulmonary fibrosis s/p double lung transplant 5/23,
complicated by significant blood loss, referred for routine EEG today after he was noted to have left >
right leg twitching and right gaze deviation that could be overcome with oculocephalic maneuver.
PMH: L ICA occlusion.




MEDICATIONS: s/p Ativan 2 mg + Keppra



SEDATION: meds as above



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:






The background is continuous and symmetric but poorly organized and not reactive. Background
consists of diffuse delta with occasional admixed faster frequencies. There is no posterior dominant
rhythm. There is no variability, reactivity, or state change.




There is severe generalized slowing. Spontaneous eyeblinks are noted.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) frontally-predominant diffuse sharp waves with triphasic morphology.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 126 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal routine EEG due to:


1. Severe generalized slowing and poor organization, with lack of reactivity

2. Frequent frontally-predominant diffuse sharp waves with triphasic morphology

3. Tachycardia noted in a single EKG lead



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


Sharp waves with triphasic morphology are a nonspecific but pathologic finding that is seen most
commonly in toxic-metabolic encephalopathies. However, they may also be markers of diffuse
epileptogenic discharges seen in association with seizures. Clinical correlation is advised.


Tachycardia is noted in a single EKG lead.
