HISTORY:

40 y.o. male with a history of 2 episodes of LOC (2011, 3/2016), associated with fall
and postictal headache, no tongue biting or incontinence, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of
paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS: Prozac



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:








The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

1. Frequent runs of 7-7.5 Hz, in runs up to 2.5 sec, sharply contoured theta waves phase reversing
over the left anterior temporal (F7/T1) region are noted in drowsiness.  These have appearance most
consistent with a benign variant (RMTD or wicket waves).




ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an essentially normal awake and drowsy routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.


The runs of sharply contoured theta range frequency waveforms described above are most consistent
with a benign variant.





CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an essentially normal awake and drowsy routine EEG.

The runs of sharply contoured theta range frequency waveforms described above are most consistent
with a benign variant.


If clinically warranted, a recording with sleep may be helpful.
