HISTORY:

52 y.o. female with a history of seizure disorder, most recently with seizure in
July, also complaining of migraine headaches, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal
events.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

diphenhydrAMINE (BENADRYL), butalbital-acetaminophen-caffeine (FIORICET, ESGIC), topiramate
(TOPAMAX) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily, multivitamin (THERAGRAN),
cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 10 mg tablet, cholecalciferol, vitamin D3, 50,000 unit Tablet,
ondansetron (ZOFRAN, AS HYDROCHLORIDE), omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg, phenytoin
(DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule,



gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3 times daily, sertraline
(ZOLOFT) 50 mg tablet, zolpidem (AMBIEN) 10 mg tablet, alprazolam (XANAX) 1 mg tablet,




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by a moderate amount of poorly organized 8-9 Hertz
posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). A large amount of anteriorly predominant 18-25 Hz activity was
seen. In addition, intermixed irregular bilateral medium amplitude centrotemporal 5-7 Hz activity
was noted.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Brief stage II sleep was seen during the latter portion of the tracing and was characterized by normal
sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes.
Slow wave sleep was not captured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


Occasional wicket waves are noted during drowsiness over the left temporal regions


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


EKG monitor showed normal sinus rhythm at 78/m with STT wave changes.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:





1. Background disorganization, mild slowing of dominant posterior rhythm during wakefulness, and
increased irregular bilateral central and temporal slow activity.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are nonspecific and indicate a mild bihemispheric functional disturbance such as that
seen with a variety of mild generalized encephalopathies of various etiologies. No clinical or
electrographic seizures, no focal slowing, and no pathologic paroxysmal epileptiform discharges were
recorded.
