DATE OF STUDY: 01/09/17

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep





HISTORY:

a 59 y.o. female with a history of previous posterior cerebral artery
infarct, subsequent development of epilepsy.  Patient was brought to the emergency room after she
had a uncle with the daughter, speech didn't make sense.  No motor deficits noted, but family notes
the patient's language remains impaired and bilingual speech therapist confirms diagnosis of
aphasia, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.





MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


ciprofloxacin HCl (CIPRO) tablet 500 mg

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL) tablet 400 mg

lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) tablet 20 mg


albuterol (PROVENTIL) nebulizer solution 5 mg

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 20 mg

cyanocobalamin tablet 100 mcg


ezetimibe (ZETIA) tablet 10 mg

folic acid (FOLVITE) tablet 1 mg



hydrOXYzine hcl (ATARAX) tablet 25 mg

insulin glargine (LANTUS) injection 15 Units


sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

clopidogrel (PLAVIX) tablet 75 mg



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A bedside Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.


BP (!) 179/94 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Lying)  Pulse 82  Temp 97.1 F (36.2 C)
(Oral)  Resp 18  Ht 5' 3" (1.6 m)  Wt 253 lb (114.8 kg)  SpO2 94%  BMI 44.82 kg/m2


EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is both abnormal and asymmetric.  The right hemisphere demonstrates a
somewhat slow and disorganized record with the posterior dominant rhythm of 6 Hz, symmetric and
reactive with anterior to posterior gradient.  There is some arrhythmic delta activity noted on the
right.


The left hemisphere demonstrates nearly continuous focal slowing with arrhythmic delta activity
some of which is sharply contoured in the left mid temporal region.  There is irregular, somewhat
periodic delta and also sharp waves, described below


During drowsiness, more markedly background slowing was noted, but the persistent left hemispheric
focal slowing can BE identified Sleep is not otherwise characterized


Moderate generalized slowing is present.

Continuous focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Rare (<1hour) sharp waves are noted, left anterior temporal or Fp1 maximum, intermittent.

There are also lower voltage mid temporal discrete spikes which can be differentiated from EKG
artifact

Bursts of sharply contoured delta noted intermittently

OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  FIRDA- drowsy



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Tactile and verbal stimulation produces an alerting response

EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 80-90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.






IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep bedside EEG due to:


1.  Continuous focal slowing from the left hemisphere

2.  Sharply contoured slowing or occasional periodic delta left mid temporal region


3.  Sharp waves or spikes noted from the left hemisphere, some of which are more anterior than
expected given the location of the previous stroke



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings support a structural process on the left which is reasonably irritative in nature.  No
seizures were identified, but given the presence of some periodic slowing, ongoing vigilance is
essential.






















































