HISTORY:

58 y.o. male with a history of congenital

brain malformation, cognitive impairment and epilepsy referred


for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.  Family

describes progressive cognitive impairment and has been

discontinuing seizure medications.  No recent seizures



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 3 capsules by mouth

nightly.

carbamide peroxide (DEBROX) 6.5 % otic solution, Place 5 drops


into both ears daily as needed.

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

every 6 hours as needed for Pain.


mirabegron (MYRBETRIQ) 50 mg Tablet Sustained Release 24 hr, Take




1 tablet by mouth daily.

ARIPiprazole (ABILIFY) 15 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth


daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically

difficult record and included a single channel of EKG and photic


stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

Visualization of the waking background is  limited by muscle

artifact however it is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a


symmetric and reactive 9Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).

The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and


amplitude is present.  There is prominent beta noted in the

background and muscle artifact of theta frequency


During drowsiness, and asymmetry is seen with more beta on the


left and theta on the right



Sleep- per stages are not sustained


Generalized slowing is present.

Focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Photic Stimulation: No epileptiform discharges were elicited

EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. excess theta

2. in this challenging record, there is an asymmetry with the bit


more slowing on the right


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are similar to previous studies.  However, there


were no sharp waves noted at this time
