HISTORY: 35 y.o. male who presents after being found down unresponsive, s/p assault. CTH showed R SDH, now s/p emergent craniotomy (no bone flap right side). EVD is in place over L fronto central (FZ) region. Has left skull base fracture, L occipital epidural hematoma s/p suboccipital craniectomy, and pneuneocepalus.    Tech notes right scalp is edematous. Now referred for EEG for assessment of an altered mental status with episodic right gaze deviation (can be overcome by oculocephalic maneuver).  MEDICATIONS: Keppra 500 mg q12h, oxycodone, fentanyl, morphine  SEDATION: meds as above  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (6/17/2016, 10:31 - 6/18/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND: Most of the background consists of drowsiness and sleep. The waking background is continuous and reactive but asymmetric. The left hemisphere consists of a fairly organized mixture of alpha and beta with fragments of an irregular posterior dominant rhythm that approach 7.5 Hz. The right hemisphere is disorganized and consists of mostly delta with superimposed sharply contoured fast frequencies, most prominently seen over the right central region (C4 max) but with a wide field, consistent with breach rhythm.  Drowsiness and sleep are characterized by attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm with further background slowing. Sleep transients are not seen.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) rhythmic delta activity is seen over the left parasagittal region (F3/C3 max), occurring in runs fluctuating from 1 to 2.5 Hz for up to 15 min, without definite evolution.  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in 100s-110s  DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to: 1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization 2. Right hemisphere continuous slowing 3. Right central breach rhythm 4. Runs of rhythmic delta activity seen over the left parasagittal region that do not clearly evolve.  These findings indicate the presence of right hemisphere dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, with left parasagittal epileptogenic potential, superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. The right central breach rhythm is consistent with this patient's known history of craniotomy.  There were no definite electrographic seizures.  There were no clinical events reported or detected.     -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 2 (6/18/2016, 06:00 - 6/19/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND:  Reactive Left hemisphere: disorganized with theta and delta, with lack of definite posterior dominant rhythm Right hemisphere: no change from day 1  GENERALIZED SLOWING: moderate  FOCAL SLOWING: No change  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: similar to day 1: Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) rhythmic delta activity is seen over the left parasagittal region (F3/C3 max), occurring in runs of fluctuating from 1-2.5 Hz for up to 15 min, without definite evolution.  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single EKG lead captured a heart rate in the 80s   DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  Worsened degree of background slowing from "mild" to "moderate." No change in continuous right hemispheric slowing and right central breach rhythm. Runs of rhythmic delta activity seen over the left parasagittal region that do not clearly evolve.     -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 3 (6/19/2016, 06:00 - 6/19/2016, 15:20)  BACKGROUND: no change from day 2  GENERALIZED SLOWING: moderate  FOCAL SLOWING: No change  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: similar to days 1 and 2: Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) rhythmic delta activity is seen over the left parasagittal region (F3/C3 max), occurring in runs of fluctuating from 1-2.5 Hz for up to 15 min, without definite evolution. On 6/19/2016 between 11:59 and 12:07 the patient was assessed at bedside by the electroencephalographer.  During runs of rhythmic delta activity over the left hemisphere, the patient was examined. There was no clear change in his exam. There was no gaze deviation.   EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single EKG lead captured a heart rate in the 60s   DAY 3 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  No change from day 2. There is no clinical correlate seen during runs of left parasagittal rhythmic delta activity.       -----------------------------------------------------------------  FINAL IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal video EEG due to:  1. Mild generalized slowing, worsening to "moderate" by day 2, and suboptimal organization 2. Right hemisphere continuous slowing 3. Right central breach rhythm 4. Runs of rhythmic delta activity seen over the left parasagittal region that do not clearly evolve. These have no clinical correlate on bedside exam on 6/19 as detailed above.   FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings indicate the presence of right hemisphere dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, with left parasagittal epileptogenic potential, superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. The right central breach rhythm is consistent with this patient's known history of craniotomy.  There is no clinical correlate seen during runs of left parasagittal rhythmic delta activity. There were no definite electrographic seizures captured during this study.    
