HISTORY:

58 y.o. male with a history of sleep apnea, HTN, depression, schizophrenia,
and seizures (which he reports are during sleep) referred for routine EEG for characterization of
seizures.


MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, phenobarbital



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

Most of the record consists of drowsiness and sleep.






The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed in
drowsiness, does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

The patient is quick to fall asleep, even after stimulation by the tech. Tech notes load snores and
possible apnea events in sleep. Normal sleep background, interrupted by arousals, is seen throughout
record.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an essentially normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  However, the patient snores and
appeared to have interruption of breathing during sleep.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



This is an essentially normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.


If clinically warranted, further workup including a sleep study may be of benefit for this patient's
snoring and apneic events.

