HISTORY:

81 y.o. female with a history of 3 episodes of loss of consciousness with 24 hours of
postictal confusion following, within a couple months from one another, referred for routine EEG for
evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS: started on Keppra today



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


Abundant bitemporal synchronous and independent (L>R) rhythmic slowing is present (see below
under



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Abundant (>1/10s) bitemporal independent, L>R rhythmic slowing is present. This finding is known
as temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA).


2. Frequent left fronto-temporal (F7, T1 > T3) spike- and sharp-and-wave discharges


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:


1. Abundant bitemporal independent TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity)

2. Frequent left fronto-temporal (F7, T1 > T3) spike- and sharp-and-wave discharges



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of bitemporal independent (left > right) epileptogenic
discharges. Temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA) has been found in association with
temporal lobe seizures.




These findings were communicated to the neurology consult team.
