HISTORY:

34 y.o. male with a history of brain anomalies including, mild

dolichocephaly, agenesis of the corpus callosum, and posterior


Colpocephaly.  He has polycystic kidney disease and had a single seizure following hypotensive spell
at dialysis last month, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

amoxicillin (AMOXIL) 500 mg capsule, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily.


repaglinide (PRANDIN) 0.5 mg tablet, Take 0.5 mg by mouth 3 times daily (before meals).

calcium acetate (PHOSLO) 667 mg Capsule, Take 1,334 mg by mouth 3 times daily.

clarithromycin (BIAXIN) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily.


enalapril (VASOTEC) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.

RENAL CAPS 1 mg Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.



omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 20 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

Food Supplement, Lactose-Free (BOOST CALORIE SMART) Liquid, Take 1 Can by mouth 3 times
daily.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation. He has a shunt noted on the right.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is markedly abnormal and asymmetric.  The left hemisphere is somewhat
slow but does include a 9.5 Hz symmetric reactive alpha rhythm.  There is excess theta noted on the
left.

The right hemisphere demonstrates more significant arrhythmic delta activity was clear disruption of
faster frequency activity.  A rhythmic delta activity is most prominent in the right posterior quadrant.
Breach rhythm was identified.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  Arrhythmic delta activity is more
prominent on the right during sleep



Sleep is asymmetric with vertex waves identified



Generalized slowing is present.

Focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY FIRDA

ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Photic Stimulation: does not activate the record



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. background slowing and disorganization

2. focal slowing in the right hemisphere with arrhythmic delta activity

3. FIRDA



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are suggestive of both a structural process on the right, congruent with the
neurosurgical history described above.  The generalized background slowing and rhythmic slowing
may be part of a metabolic encephalopathy in this patient with renal failure.  No definitive
epileptiform discharges were identified
