HISTORY:

29 y.o. female with a history of seizures and headaches.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


meclizine (ANTIVERT) 12.5 mg tablet, Take 12.5 mg by mouth 3 times daily as needed.

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 2 capsules by mouth at bedtime.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.


naproxen (NAPROSYN) 375 mg tablet, Take 375 mg by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).

prednisone (DELTASONE) 10 mg tablet, Use as directed

traMADol (ULTRAM) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain.


traZODone (DESYREL) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth nightly.

citalopram (CELEXA) 20 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy 1 hour routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy 1 hour routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.


No epileptiform discharges are present, but stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If clinically indicated,
repeat EEG with sleep recording may provide additional information.
