HISTORY:

68 y.o. female with a history of seizures, seizure free x18 years, referred for routine
EEG for characterization of seizures after she was found down by daughter, confused.



MEDICATIONS:


Dilantin 100 mg q12h

Phenobarbital 100 mg qhs



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:





The study consists almost exclusively of sleep.  During stimulation, the background briefly reacts,
forming a fairly organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with fragments of a
posterior dominant rhythm that approach 7 Hz are seen.




The patient quickly falls back asleep.  Drowsiness is characterized by attenuation and fragmentation
of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse background slowing.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) bifrontal spikes (Fp1/Fp2 max), with shifting predominance between
the hemispheres


2. Occasional right temporal (F8/T4>T2) sharp waves



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal asleep only routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) bifrontal spikes (Fp1/Fp2 max), with shifting predominance between
the hemispheres


3. Occasional right temporal (F8/T4>T2) sharp waves




CLINICAL CORRELATION:




These findings are indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which may at least in part be
associated with a drowsy state.


Bifrontal spikes with shifting predominance may be indicative of a unilateral focus with rapid
secondary spread. Alternatively, a generalized epileptogenic process that fragments in sleep could
be responsible. There is additional evidence for a right temporal epileptogenic potential focus.
