HISTORY:

27 y.o. male with a history of seizures

referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily. For total dose of 1250 mg twice per day

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2


times daily. For total dose of 1250 mg twice per day


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2




electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and


photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta with excess of

theta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior

gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


Mild generalized slowing is present.


There is abundant left temporal polymorphic and rhythmic delta

and theta slowing.


There is abundant synchronous and independent right temporal

polymorphic and quasi-rhythmic delta and theta slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. There is abundant left temporal rhythmic delta slowing, as

noted above



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

2. There is occasional bi-frontal sharply contoured activity is

noted in sleep, not clearly epileptiform.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180


seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse slowing

with superimposed bilaterally synchronous slow waves.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps), performed in sleep, does not produce

any EEG changes.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing

2. Abundant left temporal polymorphic and rhythmic delta and

theta slowing

3. Abundant synchronous and independent right temporal


polymorphic and quasi-rhythmic delta and theta slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of bitemporal dysfunction

superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Left temporal

intermittent rhythmic delta activity (also known as TIRDA) is


consistent with epileptiform discharges of left temporal origin.
