HISTORY:

46 y.o. female with a history of breast cancer and diabetes who has had
alteration in mental status with intermittent eyelid fluttering. She was referred for bedside EEG for
assessment of mental status change.




MEDICATIONS:

Outpatient medications included Xanax, Synthroid, insulin, oxycodone/OxyContin, and
antihypertensive



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel portable electroencephalogram (EEG) at the bedside was recorded using
the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically suboptimal record secondary to poor patient cooperation and included a single channel
of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:



The waking background is considerably degraded by excessive muscle artifact obscuring large
portions of the background EEG activity. The patient was confused, talking, refusing to close her
eyes, then moving during much of the study. Intermittently, when movement subsided, background
demonstrated poorly organized generalized low to medium and medium amplitude 4-8 Hz activity.
Superimposed muscle and eye blink artifact was seen during much of the tracing.





Sleep is not captured


No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 115 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:


1. Generalized background slowing and disorganization. As noted, the study was technically limited
by excessive eye blink, muscle, and movement artifact.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of a diffuse disturbance of cerebral activity such as that seen
with a variety of generalized encephalopathies of various etiologies. No persistent focal slowing, no
clinical or electrographic seizures, and no paroxysmal or epileptiform activity was recorded.
