HISTORY: 21 y.o. male with a history of anxiety disorder, emotional difficulties and epilepsy.  Onset of epilepsy at age 12.  Past history of schizophrenia, bipolar disease, cocaine heroine marijuana and K 2 abuse referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.  MEDICATIONS: Current Outpatient Prescriptions: naproxen (NAPROSYN) 375 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily as needed for up to 30 days. buspirone (BUSPAR) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 30 days. Indications: GENERALIZED ANXIETY DISORDER levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours for 30 days. Indications: seizure disorder hydroxyzine hcl (ATARAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth at bedtime for 30 days. Indications: ANXIETY TECHNIQUE: A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.  EEG BACKGROUND: The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. There is a small amount of background disorganization noted.  Lambda was present During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with POSTS synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured. No major generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.   EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: No epileptiform activity is present.  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:        Hyperventilation: Produces a small amount of slowing       Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.   EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  HEART RATE: A heart rate of 50 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  IMPRESSION: This is a very mildly abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected. 1.  Mild excess theta and disorganization CLINICAL CORRELATION: No epileptiform features were noted.  The findings described above can be related to the patient's underlying illness or medications.  This routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. 
