HISTORY:

68 y.o. female with a history of partial epilepsy following a R parietal infarct
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

metformin (GLUCOPHAGE) 1,000 mg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth twice a day with meals


benzonatate (TESSALON PERLES) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3 times daily as
needed for Cough.


omeprazole (PRILOSEC OTC) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily (before meals) for
360 days.

albuterol (VENTOLIN HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs every 6 hours as
needed for Wheezing.


glipizide (GLUCOTROL XL) 10 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


metoprolol (LOPRESSOR) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

pravastatin (PRAVACHOL) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.



aspirin EC 81 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Vertex waves occasionally occur in runs. Slow wave sleep was not
captured.


No generalized slowing is present.

There is very frequent right anterior-mid temporal polymorphic slowing.

There is frequent left anterior-mid temporal polymorphic slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:




There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Very frequent right anterior-mid temporal polymorphic slowing


2. Frequent left anterior-mid temporal polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of right > left anterior-mid temporal cerebral dysfunction.
