HISTORY: 65 y.o. female with a history of left MCA stroke and epilepsy, presenting with acute onset aphasia and right hemiparesis in the setting of negative perfusion imaging, referred for EEG for screening for subclinical seizures.  MEDICATIONS: Depakote, Keppra, Vimpat  SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (8/2/2016, 19:55 - 8/3/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND: The waking background is continuous and asymmetric. The right hemisphere consists of a well-organized mixture of alpha and beta, with a reactive posterior dominant rhythm of 9 Hz. The left hemisphere consists of attenuated delta activity with admixed faster frequencies, without a posterior dominant rhythm.  During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and further background slowing are seen.   Sleep is characterized by spindles and K complexes that are seen better over the right hemisphere.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  Continuous periodic sharply contoured delta waves over the left posterior quadrant occurring every 0.5-1 Hz  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s  DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to: 1. Continuous attenuation and slowing over the left hemisphere 2. Continuous lateralized periodic discharges over the left posterior quadrant  These findings are indicative of left posterior quadrant highly epileptogenic potentials superimposed on left hemisphere cortical dysfunction. -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 2 (8/3/2016, 06:00 - 8/3/2016, 09:13)  BACKGROUND: No change  GENERALIZED SLOWING: No change  FOCAL SLOWING: No change  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Unchanged compared with day 1  EVENTS:  Seizure, likely complex partial 8/3/2016 at 09:09 CLINICAL: The patient is sitting up in bed and looks over to left, but unclear if this is ictal behavior or if she is attending to her family member on that side. Family member arranges her breakfast tray in front of her and she appears inattentive to this. Family member does not seem to notice. She has occasional right hand opening-closing movements. EEG: onset of rhythmic 2 Hz spike and wave over the left posterior quadrant, evolving into sharply contoured alpha activity that spread throughout the entire left hemisphere, slowed to theta, then delta with admixed spikes, reflecting across the right posterior quadrant. Postictally, there is slowing and attenuation over the left hemisphere, and lateralized periodic discharges resume, now manifested as spike-wave.  EKG: A single EKG lead captured a heart rate in the 90s   DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to: 1. Continuous attenuation and slowing over the left hemisphere 2. Continuous lateralized periodic discharges over the left posterior quadrant 3. A single seizure of left posterior quadrant origin captured just as study was ending, likely complex partial though patient not formally tested during it  -----------------------------------------------------------------  FINAL IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to:  1. Continuous attenuation and slowing over the left hemisphere 2. Continuous lateralized periodic discharges over the left posterior quadrant 3. A single seizure captured just as study was ending on day 2, likely complex partial though patient not formally tested during it   FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings are diagnostic of localization related epilepsy of left posterior quadrant origin, superimposed on left hemisphere cortical dysfunction. 
