DATE OF STUDY: 09/15/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 60 min - 3 hr, awake and asleep




HISTORY:

a 23 y.o. male with a history of  JME referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.  Anxiety, no mention of recent seizures



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

finasteride (PROSCAR) 5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days.

divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 500 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 3 tablets by mouth every 12 hours for 360
days.

mometasone (ELOCON) 0.1 % lotion, Apply to scalp daily x 4 weeks then PRN flare

TECHNIQUE:

A   1 hour video Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9  Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.  Supra harmonic driving was noted, although the
patient was transitioning into stage II sleep




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep 1 hour EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



This is a normal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG.  The patient appears to be very sleepy, as might
be expected if this was a sleep deprived study


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.








































































