HISTORY:

72 y.o. female with a history of dementia, hypertension, increased confusion and
left arm jerking movements, referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 5 mg tablet,

escitalopram oxalate (LEXAPRO) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is poorly organized, with a moderate amount of low to medium amplitude 6-
7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). Low voltage anteriorly predominant beta activity is seen. A
moderate amount of intermixed irregular shifting bilateral 3-5 Hz activity is seen, some of which is
secondary to movement artifact. The patient was poorly relaxed during much of the tracing,
intermittently clenching her teeth, with large amounts of frontal eye movement and generalized
muscle artifact. Myoclonic left arm jerking reported in the clinical history was not observed.





During brief periods of drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm
along with increased diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) right centrotemporal sharp transients or sharply contoured slow waves
are seen at C4-P4-T6.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:




1. Diffuse background slowing and disorganization

2. Infrequent sharp transients in the right central-parietal-posterior temporal region.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


The diffuse background slowing and disorganization or nonspecific and indicate a mild to moderate
bihemispheric functional disturbance such as that seen with a variety of generalized
encephalopathies of various etiologies. The infrequent sharp transients noted suggest a mild irritative
disturbance in the right central-parietal-posterior temporal region.





