HISTORY:

57 y.o. male with a history of meningioma

resection and a seizures, now presents for further evaluation.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


valsartan-hydrochlorothiazide (DIOVAN-HCT) 320-25 mg per tablet,

Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2


times daily.

oxyCODONE (ROXICODONE) 5 mg immediate release tablet,

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 10 mg tablet,


metFORMIN (GLUCOPHAGE) 500 mg tablet, 500 mg 2 times daily (with

meals).



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically


with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured


Continuous fast activity at higher amplitudes is captured over

the left frontocentral region (C3 maximal).  Additional rare


polymorphic theta activity is captured over the left

frontocentral region.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~65 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


Breach - left frontocentral (C3 maximal)

Focal slowing - rare - mild - left frontocentral


No sleep II

No epileptiform discharges


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 27-minute EEG due to rare

mild left frontocentral focal slowing. This finding is suggestive


of focal cerebral dysfunction.


No epileptiform discharges are present, but stage 2 sleep was not

recorded.  If clinically indicated, repeat EEG with sleep


recording may provide additional information.



Breach effect is secondary to the skull defect.
