HISTORY:

48 y.o. female with a history of hypertension, sickle cell trait, stroke in 2003
referred for routine EEG for evaluation of several days of decreased left-sided sensation.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3 times daily.


HUMIRA PEN 40 mg/0.8 mL Pen Injector Kit,

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 5 mg tablet,

betamethasone valerate (VALISONE) 0.1 % lotion,


clopidogrel (PLAVIX) 75 mg tablet,

folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet,

hydrochlorothiazide (HYDRODIURIL) 25 mg tablet,


hydrocortisone 2.5 % ointment,




No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, positive occipital sharp transients of sleep (POSTS) and diffuse background
slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:



There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 68 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
