HISTORY:

85 y.o. female with a history of  Late onset

Alzheimer's disease without behavioral disturbance, new onset


facial twitching referred for routine EEG for characterization of

seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

ammonium lactate (LAC-HYDRIN) 12 % lotion, Use as directed


VITAMIN D 50,000 unit capsule, take 1 capsule by mouth every week

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 400 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

every 6 hours as needed.


cyanocobalamin (VITAMIN B-12) 1,000 mcg tablet, Take 1 tablet by

mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation. The


patient is restless, has frequent eye movements but no clinical

spells of facial twitching were recorded.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is sharply contoured, symmetric, reactive,

and consists of a mixture of alpha and a generous amount of


bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal

anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by


a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR),

which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.  There is occasional shifting


slowing noted in drowsiness and isolated muscle twitch artifact

is picked up on the EEG, but not seen on the video.


Sleep is not captured



No significant generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing


is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal routine EEG for an adult of this age.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Although facial twitching was not seen on the video, the EEG does

pick up twitch artifact in drowsiness.


This normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis

of epilepsy. If seizures are an important consideration, a more


prolonged study in sleep is suggested.
