HISTORY:

67 y.o. male with a history of seizures

(last: 1 week ago) referred for routine EEG as a follow up study.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 200 mg 12 hr tablet, 1 in AM 2 in PM

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, 1 in AM 2 at bed

multivitamin (DAILY-VITE) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth


daily.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a




NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a

fairly organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies,

with excess of delta frequencies in wakefulness. Fragments of a

symmetric, reactive 8.5 Hz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) are


occasionally seen.



During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior

dominant rhythm, and further background slowing are seen.


Sleep transients are not captured.



There is mild to moderate generalized slowing.


There is frequent bifrontal polymorphic slowing.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Frequent left temporal (F7/T1/T3 max) spike/polyspike and wave


activity

2. Frequent independent right temporal (F8/T2/T4 max)


spike/polyspike and wave activity

3. Occasional left fronto-temporal rhythmic delta activity at

2-2.5 Hz for <3 seconds, at times spreading diffusely over

bilateral fronto-temporal regions


4. Occasional independent left frontal (Fp1) spikes

5. Occasional independent right frontal (Fp2) spikes



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal Awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing with suboptimal

organization


2. Frequent bifrontal polymorphic slowing

3. Frequent left temporal (F7/T1/T3 max) spike/polyspike and wave


activity

4. Frequent independent right temporal (F8/T2/T4 max)

spike/polyspike and wave activity

5. Occasional left fronto-temporal rhythmic delta activity at


2-2.5 Hz for <3 seconds, at times spreading diffusely over

bilateral fronto-temporal regions


6. Occasional independent left frontal (Fp1) spikes

7. Occasional independent right frontal (Fp2) spikes


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of multifocal epileptiform

discharges (left temporal, independent right temporal,


independent left frontal, independent right frontal) superimposed

on bifrontal cerebral dysfunction and mild to moderate diffuse

cerebral dysfunction. When compared to his prior routine EEG in

2012, the current study demonstrates similar findings.
