HISTORY:

69 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy (semiology: "strange sound, followed by
tonic-clonic convulsion"), admitted with renal failure, referred for EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal
events.




MEDICATIONS: Valproic acid



SEDATION: None listed


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.





BACKGROUND:





The waking background is continuous, symmetric, poorly organized, and not clearly reactive.  There
is no definite posterior dominant rhythm.  Background consists of low amplitude delta with admixed
theta.


Frequently, there are bursts of theta activity (lasting 1-5 seconds) seen most prominently over the left
temporal region, and to a lesser extent the left parasagittal region, and less so over the right
hemisphere. There is a >50% difference in amplitude between the hemispheres during these bursts,
with higher amplitude over the left hemisphere.  There is no evolution.





State change is not definitely present.


There is severe generalized slowing



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

See



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left fronto-temporal (F7>T1/T3 max) sharp waves



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to:

1. Severe generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Frequent bursts of theta activity seen most prominently over the left temporal region


3. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left fronto-temporal (F7>T1/T3 max) sharp waves


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are indicators of left fronto-temporal epileptogenic potential superimposed on severe
diffuse cerebral dysfunction. The significance of the bursts of theta activity maximal over the left
temporal region is unclear. They may represent right hemispheric dysfunction as they are occur with
lower amplitude on that side. Alternatively, they may represent an abnormal rhythm over the left
temporal region. They do not meet electrographic criteria for seizure activity.
