
HISTORY:

71 y.o. male with a history of chronic left frontal infarct with new areas of acute
ischemia, referred for routine EEG for assessment of fluctuating language deficit.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Facility-Administered Medications:

warfarin (COUMADIN) tablet 5 mg

nystatin (MYCOSTATIN) powder 1 Application


sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim (BACTRIM DS) 800-160 mg per tablet 1 tablet

heparin 25,000 units (100 units/mL) in 0.45% sodium chloride 250 mL infusion (Premix)

magnesium oxide (MAG-OX) tablet 400 mg


hydralazine (APRESOLINE) tablet 25 mg

isosorbide dinitrate (ISORDIL) tablet 10 mg

carvedilol (COREG) tablet 25 mg


cyanocobalamin tablet 1,000 mcg

tamsulosin (FLOMAX) 24 hr capsule 0.4 mg



sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg


aspirin chewable tablet 81 mg

clopidogrel (PLAVIX) tablet 75 mg


simvastatin (ZOCOR) tablet 80 mg


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with mild excess of delta, and with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz
posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Continuous left temporal polymorphic slowing is present.


Frequent right temporal polymorphic slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing

2. Continuous left temporal polymorphic slowing

3. Frequent right temporal polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of right temporal cerebral dysfunction (etiologically nonspecific)
and left temporal cerebral dysfunction (likely structural), superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.



Following this study the patient was connected to long term monitoring for assessment of fluctuating
mental status.
