HISTORY:

48 y.o. male with a history of seizures, now presents with altered mental status
after 2 witnessed convulsions.



MEDICATIONS:


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth daily.


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

metoprolol tartrate (LOPRESSOR) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

mirtazapine (REMERON) 7.5 mg tablet, Take 7.5 mg by mouth nightly.


nutritional supplements (NOVASOURCE RENAL) Liquid, 1 Bottle by FEEDING TUBE route 3 times
daily (with meals).


omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 40 mg capsule, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 325 mg tablet, Take 650 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed for
Pain.
Lactobacillus Acidophilus (ACIDOPHILUS) Capsule, Take  by mouth.




amiodarone (PACERONE) 200 mg tablet, Take 200 mg by mouth daily.

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.


aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.

bumetanide (BUMEX) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth daily.


dronabinol (MARINOL) 2.5 mg capsule, Take 2.5 mg by mouth 2 times daily (before meals).

tamsulosin (FLOMAX) 0.4 mg 24 hr capsule, Take 0.4 mg by mouth daily.

thiamine 100 mg tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth daily.






SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of diffuse ~9 Hz activity admixed with
underriding fast activity.  The AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient is poor.




There is prominent EMG artifact over the bilateral lateral leads that obscures the tracing when the
artifact is present.




Patient remains awake throughout the recording.



Sleep is not captured


There is attenuation of faster frequencies over the left anterior temporal region.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Continuous ~0.5-1 Hz moderate to high amplitude periodic epileptiform discharges are captured over
the left anterior temporal region (F7/T1 maximal).



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None





ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~103 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake only portable routine EEG due to:

1. Mild diffuse slowing and disorganization


2. Continuous left anterior temporal focal slowing

3. Continuous quasi-periodic 0.5-1 Hz left anterior temporal epileptiform discharges.

4. No clear electrographic seizures



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



Diffuse slowing and disorganization are indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.



There is a potentially epileptogenic structural abnormality over the left anterior temporal region.


Even though no clear seizures are captured, subtle temporal seizures could have been missed on this
recording due to large amount of EMG artifact over the bilateral lateral leads.



These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team.
