DATE OF STUDY: 06/24/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient


EEG TYPE: 60 min, awake and asleep




HISTORY:

a 57 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy, now with declining mental status referred for
routine EEG for screening for subclinical seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Dilantin and Keppra


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and  Verbal stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is characterized by the presence of an organized symmetric mixture of alpha
and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The
normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  The patient is drowsy throughout much
of the record. POSTS are noted.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and POSTS. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




Modest generalized slowing is present.

In drowsiness, occasional shifting focal slowing is present, L>R.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Tactile stimulation produces an alerting

Photic Stimulation

EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Generalized background slowing with slow alpha rhythm.

2. Shifting slowing in drowsiness, L>R



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are nonspecific.  The background slowing could be due to underlying cererbral
pathology, post ictal state or toxic or metabolic cause. This appears to be an excessively drowsy
patient



Attending Epileptologist: 

I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.


This document was created using speech voice recognition software.

Grammatical errors, random word insertions, pronoun errors, and incomplete sentences are an
occasional consequence of this system due to software limitations, ambient noise, and hardware
issues.


Any formal questions or concerns about content, text, or information contained within the body of this
dictation should be directly addressed to the provider for clarification






































































