HISTORY:

49 y.o. female with a history of multiple daily seizures which are
uncontrolled, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Valproic acid, Topamax, Ativan


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background during early portions of the tracing demonstrated a large amount of
generalized beta activity, muscle and eye blink artifact along with moderate amounts of low to
medium amplitude 10-11 Hz posterior rhythmic activity. Soon after the recording started, 4-5/s
rhythmic muscle artifact was seen in left ear reference montages. At about 1:44:05, rhythmic 4-5/s
muscle artifact increased in amplitude and rapidly generalized, associated with increased heart rate
from 75/m to 132/m. Video monitoring demonstrated the patient to have side to side and less
frequent back and forth head movement along with shaking of her upper body, with head slightly
rotated more to the right than left. This activity persisted until about 1:47:50 and then rapidly
subsided, although slight movements of left hand could be seen intermittently on video recording.
During abnormal shaking movements and afterwards, EEG technologist and physician were at the
bedside examining and speaking with the






patient. She had occasional eye opening and closing and slow head nodding in response to
questions, with EEG background demonstrating a mixture of generalized beta activity, muscle
artifact, EKG artifact and frontal eye movement artifact.




Sleep is not captured



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


HEART RATE:


EKG monitor revealed variable heart rate from 75-132 per minute, as detailed above.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal EEG due to an apparent clinical seizure associated with 4-5/s rhythmic muscle
and movement artifact on EEG along with upper body and side to side shaking head movements. No
pathologic spikes or sharp waves were seen in the recording. A subcortical seizure focus which was
not detected on surface EEG is a possible consideration, although nonepileptic pseudoseizure will
need to be excluded with further neurologic evaluation.
