
HISTORY:


19 y.o. female transferred from outside

hospital for change in

mental status. Inital events characterized by acute bizarre


behavior and anxiety, then clenched UE, concerning for seizures.

Still rigid. High fevers on presentation, elevated CPK



MEDICATIONS:

Keppra

Propofol


Vancomycin and Zosyn, Versed, Ativan

SEDATION: propofol



TECHNIQUE:




Continuous Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG)

monitoring  was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.

Seizure and spike detection software was employed.  The patient

was initially intubated during the first part of the record and

was extremely agitated.



DAY 1 (03/30/2015 15:00 - 3/31/2016, 06:00)


AEDs: LEV

EEG BACKGROUND:

There is no PDR or AP gradient.  Additionally, during the record

propofol is increased due to the patient's rigidity.


The background is markedly abnormal and consists of diffuse

Mixed theta  delta activity with superimposed frequent brief


generalized

sleep-spindle-like complexes.

During periods of quiescence, the

background consists of a mixture of polymorphic slow delta


activity, diffuse sleep-spindle-like waveforms and occasional

periods of discontinuity. There are sections with 17 Hz beta


over-riding the suppression


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.  Sharply contoured


background.

The background is sharply contoured.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: none


EVENTS:

There are no  electrographic events captured during


this study.

At 4-5 PM, bedside stimulation results in an alerting with Eye


opening and a more continuous medium amplitude pattern.

At 9 PM the patient was off the monitor for MRI


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 120 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

Diffuse slowing - severe



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal day 1 LTM  EEG due to:


1.  severe diffuse slowing.

2. Prominent beta/ beta spindles.

This finding is indicative of severe diffuse cerebral

dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but in this


patient, but may be due partially to  medication effect.



Day 2


DAY 2 (03/31/2015 06:00 - 4/01/2016, 06:00)

AEDs: LEV


Fentanyl/ Steroids- Solu-Medrol

EEG BACKGROUND:


This is a dynamic record.  In the first section of the record,

the patient is intubated and on propofol.  The propofol is

reduced and the patient is extubated.  Over the course of the day

however sedation was added with fentanyl.


The background is markedly abnormal and consists of diffuse Mixed

theta  delta activity with superimposed frequent brief


generalized sleep-spindle-like complexes persist even hours after

the elimination of propofol.

With medication reduction there are more prolonged periods with a

medium voltage theta pattern.  Sleep is identified and includes a


slower delta pattern.  Bursts of rhythmic frontal delta or

arrhythmic delta are identified.  Some of these have low voltage


14-15 Hz beta was associated with them.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present. The background is sharply


contoured.

OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


FIRDA


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: none

EVENTS:


There are no  electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72-90  bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.

Occasional PVCs



IMPRESSION:


Diffuse slowing - severe, but improving.

With reduction and then brief a limitation of sedative hypnotic

medications, and the EEG pattern remains markedly abnormal for a

young adult with a delta and theta pattern.  The discontinuity


previously identified appears to be resolving in the early hours

of this section of the record.



DAY 03 (04/01/2015 06:00 - 4/02/2016, 08:48)

AEDs: LEV

Fentanyl wean, then off.


Steroids- Solu-Medrol

EEG BACKGROUND:


This is a dynamic record.  In the first section of the record,

the patient is receiving fentanyl   Over the course of the day

however sedation was eliminated.  The patient was upset and is

amnestic for the recent hospital days


The background is markedly abnormal and consists of diffuse Mixed

theta  delta activity with superimposed bursts of delta with


overlying generalized sleep-spindle-like complexes.

With medication reduction there are more prolonged periods with a


medium voltage theta pattern.  Sleep is identified and includes a

slower delta pattern.  Bursts of rhythmic frontal delta or


arrhythmic delta are identified.  Some of these have low voltage

14-15 Hz beta was associated with them.



The delta brush pattern persists and is quite prominent on the

afternoon of April 1.



Later in the record, clear sleep morphologies can be seen with

vertex waves.


The EEG was discontinued on Saturday, April 2.  At that time, the

patient was awake but did not recall events from recent days.

The EEG remained markedly abnormal with a slow background, nearly

continuous delta with smaller amounts of theta and FIRDA.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 90  bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.

Occasional PVCs


Impression: This three-day continuous video EEG monitoring


session was remarkable for:

#1 markedly slow background with delta pattern


#2  FIRDA

#3 a pattern of delta with superimposed faster frequency

activity, similar to a delta brush.  This could be seen when the

patient was taken completely off propofol, in the interval


between propofol and fentanyl, and again after fentanyl was

discontinued.


#4 an intermittent theta pattern.

There were no seizures.


Clinical Correlation:


This patient was clinically improving at the end of the record-

she was awake and coherent..  There was


evidence of improvement in the EEG with the appearance of

sleep waveforms and sections of the record with theta.



The record remains a markedly abnormal study for an adult with


abrupt onset neurological and psychiatric features, rigidity,

elevated CPK and some dysautonomia.  As discussed with the team,


additional EEG recording a be helpful to follow this pattern.
