HISTORY:

50 y.o. female with a history of seizures referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 300 mg by mouth.

ALPRAZolam (XANAX) 0.25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly as needed for Sleep for up to
30 days.


OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 600 mg tablet, Take 0.5 tablets by mouth 2 times daily. 2.5 tablets in
morning 3 TABLETS AT NIGHT


multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


SEDATION: meds as above



TECHNIQUE:







A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.

Occasional bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) bursts of generalized, frontally-predominant 2.5-3 Hz spike and wave
discharges for runs up to 3 seconds.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.






IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Occasional bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing

2. Frequent bursts of generalized spike and wave discharges as above



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of generalized epileptogenic discharges.

The finding of occasional bitemporal independent slowing suggests bitemporal cerebral dysfunction,
which is likely a finding that is unrelated to the generalized discharges.


These findings are similar to those reported EEGs from 2015 and 2008.
