HISTORY:

55 y.o. female with a history of Rasmussen's encephalitis s/p R
hemispherectomy, presenting with multiple seizures, referred for routine EEG for management of
seizure exacerbation.




MEDICATIONS: PHENOBARBITAL, LAMICTAL, TOPAMAX, AMITIZA, HEPARIN



SEDATION: none


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is continuous and reactive but asymmetric.





The left hemisphere consists of a fairly organized mixture of alpha, beta, and excess delta with
fragments of a posterior dominant rhythm approaching 8.5-9 Hz.


The right hemisphere consists of mostly low voltage delta and theta with attenuated fast frequencies,
particularly over the temporal region.



Drowsiness and sleep are characterized by further slowing of the background, with runs of semi-
rhythmic 30-40 uV delta and theta, particularly over the left hemisphere. Rudimentary sleep spindles
and K complexes are symmetric and synchronous. Background asymmetry becomes less prominent.




Mild to moderate generalized slowing is present.

Continuous right hemisphere (temporal predominant) attenuation is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left anterior temporal (T1/F7>T3) sharp waves



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Continuous slowing and attenuation over the right hemisphere (temporal region maximal)


3. Occasional left anterior temporal sharp waves


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of right hemisphere (temporal max) cortical dysfunction,
consistent with this patient's known prior history of hemispherectomy.


There is additional evidence for a mild-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific, and left anterior temporal epileptogenic potential.



Following this study the patient was continued on long term monitoring.
