HISTORY:

27 y.o. female with a history of syncope referred for routine EEG for evaluation
of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


None.

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9.5-10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but
suboptimal.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: There is no change in the background activity to visual, auditory,
tactile, or noxious stimuli.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

An irregular heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Suboptimal organization.

2. Irregular heart rate captured on single EKG lead.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are etiologically non specific indicators of mild cerebral dysfunction.

Irregular heart rate captured on single EKG lead.
