HISTORY:

This is a 41 y.o. right handed female PMH Lyme disease and previously diagnosed obstructive sleep
apnea, noncompliant with CPAP, admitted for continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG)
monitoring with a history of: paroxysmal events of unclear etiology.



Patient describes 4 types of events:

1. Head jerks in either direction

2. Head drops/body drops, with slurred speech and decreased responsivness, possibly positional


3. Facial droop (unclear which side of face affected)

4. Not feeling well, followed by alteration of consciousness, decreased awareness, right hand
shakiness, then left hand shakiness, then upper body shakiness x 20 seconds. No associated tongue
biting or incontinence. Patient states she returns to baseline after 30 min.





Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Evaluation of paroxysmal events.




Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;



- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;

- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient's exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:


A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Impedances were measured and verified to be below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded
referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to computer hard drive.  Periods of interest
were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest and reviewed in detail.






Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.





The Gotman spike and seizure detection computer program (trademark named "Stellate") was used
to screen the EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG
were recorded periodically.  Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events
and detections, as well as selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS:


Keppra 1500 mg q12h

Topamax 100 mg qhs



SEDATION: None


DAY 1 (7/25/2016, 12:15 - 7/26/2016, 06:00)




BACKGROUND:



The waking background is continuous, symmetric, well-organized, and consists predominantly of
alpha with admixed beta.



Posterior dominant rhythm was present at 10 Hz.



The background is reactive, variable.


There were no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.



Sleep was characterized by symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. The patient
sleeps frequently during the day with frequent arousals.  Sleep at night is fragmented.



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

1. Rare left temporal (T3 max) sharp transients, not epileptiform



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None present



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events were reported or detected.



DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake & asleep video EEG.



-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 2 (7/26/2016, 06:00 - 7/27/2016, 06:00)



AEDs: Keppra 1000 AM, 500 PM



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

Rare diffuse excess theta in wakefulness, sharply contoured.





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Rare (<1hour) bitemporal wicket waves.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



SEIZURES/EVENTS:


7/26/2016 at 17:30 (duration: ~5 min 40 sec)

CLINICAL: Patient is seen on camera reaching for event button for 1-2 min (uses both hands, attends
both sides of bed). Then has intermittent nonrhythmic waxing-waning tremor of right wrist/forearm.
Face pulling not clearly seen on video. She is able to follow commands and answer all EMU protocol
questions. Staff notes patient is crying. On rounds next day patient states that this episode
represented 2 of her typical episodes in 1 event: (1) left face pulling combined with (2) right hand
shaking.  She notes has a bad migraine prior to and after the event.




EEG: there is no ictal EEG cerebral correlate

EKG: no change in heart rate



-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 3 (7/27/2016, 06:00 - 7/28/2016, 06:00)



AEDs:

Keppra STOPPED

Topamax 100 qhs



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: unchanged



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None





ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) is performed at
7/27 09:46 and does not produce any EEG changes.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds on 7/27 09:54 and produces no
effect.


Sleep deprived until 7/28 03:00



SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



*On this day patient shows epilepsy team a home video of her head nodding episodes.  She is sitting
up and appears to be



-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 4 (7/28/2016, 06:00 - 7/29/2016, 06:00)



AEDs:

Keppra STOPPED


Topamax 100 qhs


INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: unchanged



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Not performed on this day





SEIZURES/EVENTS:



EVENTS, 7/29/2016, intermittently from 01:54 - 04:23


CLINICAL: Patient appears uncomfortable in bed, rubbing her legs, face, and eyes. Tells tech, "I
have a lot of eye problems." States she does this prior to her episodes. (On rounds the following
morning she clarifies that in a video someone took of her having head nodding episodes, she noticed
she was rubbing her eyes).


EEG: There is no ictal cerebral correlate; frontal leads are obscured by movement artifact.


EKG: no change


-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 5 (7/29/2016, 06:00 - 7/29/2016, 11:56)


AEDs:


Keppra STOPPED

Topamax 100 qhs



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: unchanged


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Not performed on this day



SEIZURES/EVENTS:



EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected



-----------------------------------------------------------------



SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:


INTERICTAL FINDINGS:  The patient's interictal findings were notable for rare excess of theta
frequencies in wakefulness and bitemporal sharp waves that were most consistent with a benign
variant (wicket waves).  There were no pathologic epileptiform discharges nor were there focal
findings.  Daytime wakefulness was punctuated by frequent spells of sleep with frequent arousals.
Sleep at night is fragmented, with frequent arousals.






ICTAL FINDINGS:

The patient had two episodes:


1. Right hand tremor and left face pulling. This was a prolonged episode during which there was no
EEG correlate


2. Episode of eye rubbing. There was no EEG correlate other than movement artifact. Note that this
was not one of the patient's typical habitual events.

The other events as listed at the top of the report were not captured during this study and so
diagnosis cannot be definitely made.



SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:


1. The episode of right hand tremor and left face pulling is most consistent, semiologically and
electrographically, with a nonepileptic behavioral event


However, the other events as listed at the top of the report were not captured during this study and so
diagnosis for these cannot be definitely made.

The home video described above raises concern for excessive daytime sleepiness.



EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:

1. Nonepileptic behavioral events


Seizures not entirely excluded as all events were not captured.


CONCLUSION:


was admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 5 days with continuous video EEG.
This was an elective EMU monitoring session for evaluation of paroxysmal events.










The interictal EEG is characterized by rare excess of theta frequencies in wakefulness and bitemporal
sharp waves that were most consistent with a benign variant (wicket waves).  There were no
pathologic epileptiform discharges nor were there focal findings.  These findings are consistent with a
mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, etiologically nonspecific.




The patient was weaned off Keppra over the course of his admission. Her topamax was uptitrated at
discharge from the hospital to treat both migraines as well as possible epilepsy. No other medication
changes were made during the hospitalization.  The patient was offered the opportunity to stay
longer to capture and characterize the remainder of her events but she preferred to be discharged
home.  She was given a prescription for an ambulatory study, as she reported her episodes may be
more frequent in her home environment with its accompanying stressors.





We recommend that she obtain a sleep study for her history of sleep apnea and reported apneic
events.




Patient is follow-up at the Temple Epilepsy Center as an outpatient.
