HISTORY:

22 y.o. male with a history of seizures (deja

vu, then LOC, bladder incontinence, postictal confusion) referred


for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS: pt unable to name meds, but denied AEDs



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


Continuous polymorphic right temporal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Abundant (>1/10s) right fronto-temporal (F8/T2 max, at times with


field extending to F4/C4) spike-wave discharges



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180


seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous polymorphic right temporal slowing


2. Abundant right fronto-temporal (F8/T2 max, at times with field

extending to F4/C4) spike-wave discharges



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of right fronto-temporal

epileptogenic potentials superimposed on right temporal cerebral


dysfunction.
