HISTORY:

37 y.o. male with a history of seizure since age of 16 years. Per the patient they
always occur in the morning. referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 12 hr tablet 600 mg BID

Lyrica 100 mg daily



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and significant diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves.
Sleep spindles and K-complexes and slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.



Frequent left anterior temporal polymorphic delta waves are present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No sharp waves seen.

Temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity seen at F7/T3.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and enhances
focal slowing on the left anterior temporal region.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity seen at anterior temporal region.



2. Frequent left anterior temporal focal slowing present.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



The findings of TIRDA in the left anterior temporal region has a high association with epileptogenic
focus in this region. In addition, the frequent left anterior temporal focal slowing indicates the
presence of focal cerebral dysfunction.
