HISTORY:

41 y.o. female with a history of childhood epilepsy with recurrence as an adult,
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.  Had a seizure in the last month.


Seizure semiology:

1. Flushing lights diffusely x1 - for at least 1 min. Head turning to the left, also does figure 4
(unknown which side), screams. GTCs. Tongue biting L. No urinary incontinence.





MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

ASPIRIN/ACETAMINOPHEN/CAFFEINE (EXCEDRIN MIGRAINE PO), Take  by mouth.


LEVONORGESTREL (MIRENA IU), by Intrauterine route.

LORazepam (ATIVAN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet ~30-60 minutes prior to the scan. May take another
tablet right before the scan.


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.




TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a disorganized symmetric mixture of
theta alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  There are
shifting asymmetries, prominent diffuse beta and also diffuse theta



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is includes vertex waves and K complexes, but does not have all of the typical, well-defined
sleep morphologies and demonstrates a great deal of fast activity



Moderate generalized slowing is present.

Shifting focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: No definitive epileptiform discharges were seen



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): Sharply contoured slowing is noted
particularly in the posterior quadrants



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Hyperventilation: Produces bilateral slowing, more so on the left


Photic Stimulation: In this sharply contoured record with a lot of fast activity, there is a driving
response, better developed on the right

EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1.  Background slowing and disorganization

2.  Shifting slowing with some features to suggest a disturbance more significant in the left
hemisphere including the responses noted and hyperventilation and photic stimulation.






CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings support a bihemispheric process.  No epileptiform discharges were identified; this
pattern may be correlated with imaging and clinical history.
