HISTORY:

63 y.o. female with a history of epilepsy following lead poisoning referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.

hydrochlorothiazide (MICROZIDE) 12.5 mg capsule, Take 12.5 mg by mouth every morning.


losartan (COZAAR) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth daily.

NIFEDICAL XL 30 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 30 mg by mouth daily.

pravastatin (PRAVACHOL) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.


primidone (MYSOLINE) 250 mg tablet, Take 250 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) 30 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth at bedtime.




SEDATION: None




TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized but asymmetric mixture
of alpha and beta frequencies, with a  reactive 8.2 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which is
sometimes better developed on the right. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present.  The overall background is slow and disorganized for an adult of this age and
there is more significant slowing and disruption of faster frequency activity noted on the left.  There is
also some shifting slowing





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  The most prominent feature of
drowsiness is diffuse beta. POSTS were noted on the right.


Sleep is not captured



Moderate generalized slowing is present.

Shifting slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Photic Stimulation: driving was elicited, not always symmetric



EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 70 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead. Regular



IMPRESSION:



This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. background slowing and disorganization for an adult of this age.


2. superimposed intermittent focal slowing noted on the left

3. prominent beta



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings support a bihemispheric process.  Correlation with imaging may be important for the
focal features. generous beta may be associated with this patient's medications
