HISTORY:

44 y.o. male with a history of usually

well-controlled epilepsy.  Typically has seizures with aura or


nocturnal seizures.  Were recently has been having seizures

without aura, reaches out with his hand and is confused referred

for continuous video EEG monitoring due to 2 poorly controlled


seizures at this time.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 400 mg 12 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by

mouth 2 times daily. Indications: COMPLEX-PARTIAL EPILEPSY


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, 1.5 tablets BID for two

weeks, then 2 BID

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Capsule, Take


1 capsule by mouth daily.




KEPPRA 750 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by


mouth daily. Indications: Hypertension



Current facility-administered medications for this visit.

Vimpat was started


TECHNIQUE:


Digital  video EEG channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, seizure

and spike detection software






-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 1 (03/02,  - 3/3/2016, )



BACKGROUND:  the background EEG is markedly abnormal.  From the

left hemisphere, the EEG is unremarkable but the right hemisphere


demonstrates intermittent, and at times sustatined rhythmic right

temporal mixed theta

delta (TIRDA) .  Drowsiness is characterized by increasing

background slowing.  In stage II sleep vertex waves K complexes


spindles and posts were noted.



Over the first 24 hours, the right temporal rhythmic slowing

starts to resolve


GENERALIZED SLOWING: None



FOCAL SLOWING:  R temporal focal slowing



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): Sharpy contoured activity



SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) R


temporal, mixed in with TIRDA and sharply contoured slowing

ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Tests of reactivity (visual, auditory,


tactile, or painful stimuli) are performed. When the patient has

TIRDA, activation seems to halt the discharge.

EVENTS:

Sz 1:17 PM 1:55 duration


Patient was awake.  He pushed the button.  The characteristics of

the aura were not clearly describes.  He was confused during the


seizure but knew that he had a seizure.

EEG: There is an ill-defined ictal pattern.  The EEG transitions

to low voltage fast pattern, compatible with an alerting.  The

patient pushes the button at 1:17:41 and his heart rate at that


time his increased from 80 beats per minute to 114.  There is no

well-defined electrographic pattern.  There may be rhythmic 3 to


4 Hz activity discernible in the frontocentral electrodes at

1:17:55.  At this time, the heart rate increases to 124 BPM.  In

addition, there is an increase in background delta.  The nurse

enters and performs testing.  The patient is not able to respond.


There is beta noted in the background at 1:19:15, there seems to

be an asymmetry with more rhythmic slowing from the right


hemisphere.

Behavior: The patient pushed the button  remembeedr that he

pushed the button, when the nurse enters, the patient is not able

to respond.  He has difficulty following commands, , is not


speaking and has automatisms of the left arm more than left leg.

The patient did not reach out and grab the nurse or anyone during


the seizure (a frequent behavior that he has been reporting) but

his arms were  wrapped around himself.  He did not recall the

code word, but he did know that he had a seizure afterwards

EKG: A single EKG lead captured 124 BPM



Sz 12:20 AM: 1:18 duration


EEG: The patient is in bed.  Prior to the seizure, rhythmic right

temporal TIRDA was noted.  There was a brief alerting in the EEG


seems to have normalized just before the patient pushes the

button.


The first clear changes in the EEG include a lower voltage fast

pattern as the patient pushes the button.At 12:20:29 there is


clear slowing in the background.  9 seconds later there is

rhythmic high amplitude 3-4 Hz activity with a right temporal, T2

maximum.  This activity evolved in and terminates abruptly at

12:21:41.


Behavior: The patient pushed the button because of a visual aura

and remembered that he pushed the button, when the nurse enters,


the patient is not able to respond.  He has difficulty following

commands, late in the seizure he is trying to speak but he is

responding correctly in tell the last few seconds of the seizure.

Was able to push the button with the left hand but then had


automatisms of the left hand and left leg.  The right arm was

flexed.  The patient did not reach out and grab the nurse or


anyone during the seizure (a frequent behavior that he has been

reporting) but his arms were  wrapped around himself.  He did not

recall the code word, but he did know that he had a seizure

afterwards


EKG: A single EKG lead captured 124 BPM

DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION


Abnormal due to:

1. Right temporal rhythmic theta or delta, initially almost

continuous.  Of note, interaction with the patient seems to stop

this discharge.


2. R temporal sharp waves

3. 2 clinical seizures with similar behavioral features.  In


addition, both had tachycardia.  Of note, only the second seizure

had dramatic EEG signature



-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 2 (03/03/2016, 06:00 - 3/04/2016, 06:00)



AEDs: Vimpat, Kepppra



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:


The background EEG is  abnormal.  From the

left hemisphere, the EEG is unremarkable but the right hemisphere

demonstrates intermittent rhythmic right temporal mixed theta

delta (TIRDA) .


Sleep  Drowsiness is characterized by increasing

background slowing.  In stage II sleep vertex waves K complexes


spindles and posts were noted.  Intermittent rhythmic right

temporal mixed theta

delta (TIRDA) is seen in sleep .



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

occassional T2 sharps are seen, particularly in epochs with TIRDA



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: No tests of reactivity (visual, auditory,

tactile, or painful stimuli) are performed.


SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



EKG: A single lead captured 78 BPM


DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION

Abnormal due to:


1. Right temporal rhythmic theta or delta,- improving compared to

the first day


2. R temporal sharp waves.



DAY 3 (03/04/2016, 06:00 - 3/05/2016, 10:00)



AEDs: Vimpat, Kepppra



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

The background EEG is  abnormal.  From the

left hemisphere, the EEG is unremarkable with reactive alpha but

the right hemisphere


demonstrates intermittent rhythmic right temporal mixed theta

delta (TIRDA) .  There are increasing epochs with a normal 9 Hz,


symmetric, reactive alpha.

Sleep  Drowsiness is characterized by increasing

background slowing.  In stage II sleep vertex waves K complexes

spindles and posts were noted.  Intermittent rhythmic right


temporal mixed theta

delta (TIRDA) is seen in sleep, less than in prior days .



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

infrequent T2 sharps are seen, particularly in epochs with TIRDA



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: No tests of reactivity (visual, auditory,

tactile, or painful stimuli) are performed.

SEIZURES/EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



EKG: A single lead captured 66-78 BPM


DAY 3 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION


Abnormal due to:

1. Right temporal rhythmic theta or delta,- improving compared to


the first day

2. R temporal sharp waves, fewer than the first day.



FINAL  IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION



Abnormal due to:

1. Right temporal rhythmic theta or delta, initially almost

continuous.  Of note, interaction with the patient seems to stop


this discharge.  Improving over the course of the LTM.

2. R temporal sharp waves


3. 2 clinical seizures with similar behavioral features.  In

addition, both were associated with tachycardia.  Of note, only

the second seizure had a  dramatic EEG signature.

