HISTORY:

30 y.o. female with a history of seizures, increasing in frequency, and headache,
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: pt unable to recall



SEDATION: None listed



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically difficult record;
tech notes that impedences are ~10 kOhm in the setting of patient having a hair product.  For the first
half of the study, O1 is affected by artifact and for the second half of the study it does not appear to
be recording properly. The study included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:






The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies with excess theta and delta, with a symmetric and reactive posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR) that approached 10-11 Hz. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of
frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and further
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal, very limited, awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing


CLINICAL CORRELATION:




These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of the presence of mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.


Please note limitations of study described above.


If clinically warranted, a recording with sleep may be helpful, using a different headbox and after the
patient has been counseled to avoid wearing hair product.
