HISTORY:

64 y.o. female with a history of cavernoma, seizures.  Most recent seizure with
bilateral hand numbness and R leg shaking, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.
COPD




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


traMADol (ULTRAM) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain.

Ergocalciferol, Vitamin D2, (VITAMIN D) 50,000 unit Capsule, Take 50,000 Units by mouth every 7
days.
isoniazid (NYDRAZID) 300 mg tablet, Take 300 mg by mouth daily.


rifampin (RIFADIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 300 mg by mouth daily.

pyridoxine (B-6) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth daily.

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8.7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. The alpha ranges from 8.7-11 Hz. There is mild excess
theta and beta





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. In the transition to drowsiness, there are
infrequent bursts of frontal delta and rare isolated L frontal delta waves.



Sleep is characterized by spindles.



Minimal  generalized slowing is present.  Rare left frontal focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is mildly abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG.

1. Mildly disorganized background with rare left frontal focal delta in drowsiness only.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.Now epileptiform
features were identified.
