HISTORY:

66 y.o. male with a history of prior

right subcortical stroke referred for routine EEG for loss of


consciousness with incontinence


MEDICATIONS:



No current facility-administered medications documented by the

technologist



SEDATION: Not documented



TECHNIQUE:

A  bedside portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram

(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with


T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a




technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of

EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8.5-9


Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not

performed.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  No focal


features were identified.  There is no significant background

slowing

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.
