HISTORY:

54 y.o. female with a history of seizure disorder, intracranial shunt placement,
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1,000 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily.


CALCIUM CARBONATE/VITAMIN D3 (CALTRATE-600 + D VIT D3, 800, PO), Take  by mouth.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:



A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a medium voltage 9-10 Hertz posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR) which was asymmetric, better developed on the left. Low voltage frontally
predominant beta activity was seen bilaterally. Continuous medium amplitude irregular 2-4 Hz
activity was seen on the right, predominantly over the temporal and central regions. Occasional sharp
transients were seen in the right mid temporal region at T4.





During brief periods of drowsiness, voltage attenuation, fragmentation of the posterior dominant
rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) sharp transients at T4 were seen.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 56 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Continuous irregular right central and temporal slowing.

2. Infrequent sharp transients in the right temporal region at T4.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:





These findings indicate the presence of a right hemispheric functional disturbance with mild irritative
features in the mid right temporal region.
