HISTORY:

24 y.o. female with a history of seizures since age 13, characterized by left hand
shaking, eyes rolling back, and tongue biting lasting for 10-20 seconds. Her last seizure was in 2011.
She was referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

Etonogestrel (NEXPLANON) 68 mg Implant, by Subdermal route.


UNKNOWN TO PATIENT, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily. Takes a red birth control pill daily
Indications: Pregnancy Contraception



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.





IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



A normal interictal EEG cannot exclude the diagnosis of epilepsy. If clinically indicated, a more
prolonged EEG or ambulatory recording may provide additional helpful information.
