HISTORY:

53 y.o. male with a history of seizures, now

presents with 2 episodes of unresponsiveness.



MEDICATIONS:

Depakote




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and


photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:


There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower

waveforms over the left.  There is no clear PDR or AP gradient.



With stimulation the background over the right consists of a

mixture of low amplitude alpha, theta and underriding delta

activity.



The background over the left consists of continuous monomorphic


semi-rhythmic moderate-to-high amplitude 1-2 Hz delta activity

that is most pronounced over the left anterior temporal region

and left parietal region.  Underriding polymorphic theta activity

is captured over the left as well.






During drowsiness, the degree of delta activity increases

diffusely.



Sleep is not captured




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional low amplitude left parietal sharp waves are noted

(maximal over the P3 lead).






ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.






EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~65 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

Diffuse slowing, polymorphic - moderate

Focal slowing, semirhythmic - severe - hemisphere - left -


especially anterior temporal and parietal region

Sharp waves - occasional - left parietal



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal 23-minute potable awake and drowsy EEG due to

(1) moderate diffuse slowing; (2) continuous severe left


hemispheric (especially anterior temporal and parietal focal

slowing) and (3) occasional left parietal epileptiform


discharges.


Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral

dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.


Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural

lesion over the left.


There is a potential epileptogenic focus over the left parietal

region.
