HISTORY:

37 y.o. male with a history of seizures, possible withdrawal vs focal or PNES
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta, and excess sharply contoured theta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive
posterior dominant rhythm that approaches 10 Hertz. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of
frequency and amplitude is present but suboptimal.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm with bursts of sharply contoured theta, particularly over the left temporal region,
and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Abundant sharply contoured left posterior temporal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep 1-hour EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization




2. Abundant sharply contoured left posterior temporal slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of left posterior temporal dysfunction superimposed on a mild
diffuse cerebral dysfunction. The left posterior temporal dysfunction should be correlated with
imaging.
