HISTORY:

53 y.o. male with a history of  fall and/or seizure 4 years ago, seizure-free for 2
years, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet,

QUEtiapine (SEROQUEL) 100 mg tablet,


UNKNOWN TO PATIENT, Pt did not bring in meds or list

TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is somewhat disorganized.  There sections of the wake record with a well-
defined 9.5-10 Hz alpha rhythm, but there is excess beta, and early with relaxation the record has
prominent slowing.  Lambda waves are noted, better defined on the left in comparison to the right


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Intermittent mild  generalized slowing is present.

No sustained  focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): Lambda L>R




ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Hyperventilation: Produces an increase in slowing with a few bursts of shifting slowing



Photic Stimulation: There is a subtle driving response elicited, particularly at faster flash
frequencies.  Lambda is also elicited during photic, L>R



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1.  Mild background slowing and disorganization



CLINICAL CORRELATION:








These findings are nonspecific and may be related to this patient's medications or other factors.
There are minor asymmetries particularly with normal variants such as lambda.  These may be
correlated with imaging; no epileptiform features were noted
