HISTORY:

60 y.o. female with a history of seizure disorder since age 12, referred for routine
EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth at bedtime for 360 days.

warfarin (COUMADIN) 5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL) 200 mg tablet, Take 600 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL XR) 200 mg 12 hr tablet, take 3 tablets by mouth twice a day

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.


alendronate (FOSAMAX) 70 mg tablet, Take 70 mg by mouth every 7 days.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.






SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of mildly disorganized low to medium
amplitude 7-8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). Low voltage 18-30 Hz activity was seen
anteriorly with moderate amounts of superimposed muscle and frontal eye blink artifact. Occasional
asymmetric right greater than left centrotemporal 3-5 Hz activity was seen during wakefulness and
drowsiness.





Drowsiness was also accompanied by attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant
rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.






IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Mild background slowing during wakefulness.

2. Intermittent asymmetric right central and mid temporal slowing.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of a mild bihemispheric functional disturbance which is greatest
over the right central and temporal scalp regions, without any clinical neurologic graphics seizures
and with no pathologic paroxysmal epileptiform discharges recorded. If clinically indicated, a more
prolonged sleep deprived tracing capturing stage II sleep or ambulatory EEG may provide additional
helpful information.
