DATE OF STUDY: 06/24/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep

EEG #: no number provided

CPT: 95819              ICD: 780.39



HISTORY:

a 39 y.o. female with a history of HTN referred for routine EEG for possible
seizures.


MEDICATIONS: no AEDs



SEDATION: None listed


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically challenging
record at times due to diffuse muscle artifact, and included a single channel of EKG and photic
stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) that
consists of mostly low voltage fast frequencies. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency
and amplitude is present.






During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

There is frequent sharply contoured, notched theta-range slowing seen over the left anterior temporal
region.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None - see above under


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Frequent sharply contoured, notched theta-range slowing seen over the left anterior temporal
region



CLINICAL CORRELATION:




While a benign variant (rhythmic midtemporal theta bursts of drowsiness, RMTD) cannot be excluded,
a focal cerebral dysfunction of left anterior temporal origin was felt more likely based on the
appearance of the focal slowing.





Attending Epileptologist: 

I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.







































































