HISTORY:

82 y.o. male with a history of HTN, HLD,

hypothyroidism, and reflux who presented initially with right


sided weakness, slurred speech, and impaired comprehension,

referred

for routine EEG as a follow up study from previous EEG done


3/1/2016, and for assessment of mental status change.

Head CT shows L temporoparietal hematoma with increasing edema

and IVH, as well as gliosis and encephalomalacia and cortical


hyperattenuation in right parietal lobe.


MEDICATIONS: Keppra



SEDATION: None listed



TECHNIQUE:




A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by a poorly organized

mixture of mostly theta and delta frequencies, with occasional


admixed alpha.  There is no posterior dominant rhythm.  There is

subtle intermittent shifting attenuation of faster frequencies


noted over both hemispheres independently.  The background is

reactive and variable, with higher prevalence of theta

frequencies during relative wakefulness.  There are no sleep

transients.  Spontaneous eyeblink artifact is noted.  Tech notes


that patient moves frequently despite instructions to remain

still.



Moderate to severe generalized slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Moderate to severe generalized slowing and disorganization


2. Subtle intermittent shifting attenuation of faster frequencies

noted over both hemispheres independently



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of

moderate to severe diffuse dysfunction and bilaterally


independent hemispheric dysfunction.

Compared with the previous routine EEG done 3/1/2015, the current


study demonstrates improvement in the degree of cerebral

dysfunction in that reactivity and variability in cerebral

rhythms are noted in the current study.
