HISTORY:

24 y.o. male with a history of motor vehicle accident in 2015 and new onset
seizure in June referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 500 mg EC tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 3 times daily.

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 3 capsules by mouth daily for 360 days.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of 10-11 Hz rhythmic posterior activity,
higher in amplitude on the right, reactive to eye opening and closing. Low amplitude 18-30 Hz
activity was seen with normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude present.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



A moderate amount of irregular medium amplitude 2-5 Hz slowing was seen over right temporal
regions.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Occasional wicket waves are noted during drowsiness over the right temporal regions



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RHYTHM:

Sinus arrhythmia at 50-60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Intermittent irregular right temporal slowing, maximum during drowsiness and sleep.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are suggestive of functional disturbance involving the right temporal region without
any definite pathologic paroxysmal epileptiform discharges recorded.
