HISTORY:

21 y.o. female who reports seizures since age 6 months, seizure-free until 2007 when
she had breakthrough seizures, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures. Patient
reports MRI shows L mesial temporal sclerosis and cortical dysplasia.




MEDICATIONS: VIMPAT 50 MG


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

There is frequent left temporal polymorphic focal slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) left temporal (T3>T1/F7) sharp-and-wave discharges, activated by
drowsiness.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Frequent left temporal polymorphic focal slowing

2. Frequent left temporal sharp-and-wave discharges



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left temporal epileptogenic potentials superimposed on left
temporal cerebral dysfunction.
