
HISTORY:

37 y.o. male with a history of seizure disorder for 15 years, 2 brain aneurysms
with one treated by coiling, and recent "detoxification" from methadone, having recent increased
frequency of seizures, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 30 days.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:






A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system and NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel
of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10-11 Hertz rhythmic activity best seen over
central, temporal greater than posterior scalp regions (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye
opening. A moderate amount of low voltage frontotemporal muscle artifact is seen.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 64 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:




This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
