HISTORY: 49 y.o. female found down in PEA arrest, s/p 4 rounds epinephrine, undergoing hypothermia protocol referred for EEG for screening for subclinical seizures. Hypothermia protocol initiated 6/18/2016 02:00.  Temperature at start of study 32.5C. Note that she has a history of basilar artery aneurysm s/p coiling and L MCA aneurysm s/p clipping.  MEDICATIONS: propofol 25 mcg/kg/min, fentanyl; VPA 250 q12h, Keppra 500 q12h  SEDATION: as above  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG   DAY 1 (6/18/2016, 12:46 - 6/19/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND: The background consists of a burst suppression pattern. Bursts occur ever 7-20 seconds and consist of delta with superimposed alpha frequencies, lasting 1 second. As record progresses, background becomes increasingly continuous.  Diffuse muscle artifact obscures the background frequently on this day.  Severe generalized slowing with lack of reactivity is seen.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  None  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate of 66 bpm  DAY 1 IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to: 1. Burst suppression pattern   DAY 1 CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are indicative of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.     -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 2 (6/19/2016, 06:00 - 6/20/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND, GENERALIZED SLOWING, FOCAL SLOWING, PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM), SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  The background is now discontinuous (consisting of suppression ~40-49% of record). Bursts consist of 5-10 seconds of diffuse delta with admixed alpha; suppression lasts 5-10 seconds.   As day progresses a pattern emerges of continuous 1-Hz periodic discharges, seen diffusely but maximal in amplitude and phase reversing over the left fronto-temporal (F7/T1) region. Discharges consist sharply contoured delta with superimposed fast frequencies. These discharges may at least in part be due to eye blink artifact as well as very frequent glossokinetic artifact (constant eye blinking and very frequent mouth movements are seen on video).   Discharges appear to resolve over course of day (and less frequent eyeblink is seen on video), revealing a continuous but disorganized and nonreactive background consisting of mostly delta with admixed theta.  Note that interpretation of background is limited by abundant muscle artifact, affecting the bitemporal chains in particular.  As the day progresses an asymmetry between the hemispheres emerges: sharply contoured theta-delta waves phase reverse over the left anterior temporal chain, and intermittently faster frequencies are seen over the left hemisphere, in particular the left parasagittal chain, which is less affected by muscle artifact  Severe generalized slowing is present.  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single EKG lead captured a heart rate in the 120s   DAY 2 IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal, limited, long term video EEG due to: 1. Discontinuous background that becomes continuous 1-Hz diffuse, but left fronto-temporal maximal, periodic discharges. Background gradually becomes continuous but remains disorganized and nonreactive. 2. Severe generalized slowing with lack of reactivity. 3. Asymmetry between the hemispheres develops, with faster frequencies seen more over the left hemisphere. 4. Background interpretation limited somewhat by muscle artifact, constant eye blink artifact, and very frequent glossokinetic artifact. No electrographic seizures.   DAY 2 CLINICAL CORRELATION: Background becomes continuous but still demonstrates severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, with lack of reactivity.  The asymmetry between the hemispheres and the prominence of the periodic discharges over the left fronto-temporal region may be due to breach rhythm on the left hemisphere (fronto-temporal maximum), but cortical injury to the right hemisphere may also contribute and cannot be completely ruled out on the basis of this study.      -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 3 (6/20/2016, 06:00 - 6/20/2016, 16:24)  BACKGROUND: Continuous, nonreactive, disorganized delta Interpretation limited by near continuous muscle artifact (staff notes patient bites down)  GENERALIZED SLOWING: Severe  FOCAL SLOWING: none definite, though background interpretation increasingly limited by muscle artifact  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  Continuous 1-Hz lateralized periodic discharges over left fronto-temporal region (F7/T1 max)  EVENTS:  CLINICAL: Staff reports episodes of posturing ("hands pushed down, legs extend"). Times are not marked. EEG: The entire record is reviewed. No definite electrographic seizures are seen.  EKG: A single EKG lead captured a heart rate in 120s   DAY 3 IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal, limited, long term video EEG due to: 1. Left fronto-temporal epileptogenic discharges, nonevolving 2. Severe diffuse slowing with lack of reactivity.  DAY 3 CLINICAL CORRELATION: Background continues to demonstrate severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, with lack of reactivity. There are left fronto-temporal potentially epileptogenic discharges. No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.    -----------------------------------------------------------------  FINAL IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal, limited long term video EEG due to:  1. A background that starts off as burst suppression and becomes continuous by day 2, but remains disorganized without reactivity (severe generalized slowing) 2. Faster frequencies noted over the left hemisphere 3. Continuous 1-Hz diffuse, but left fronto-temporal maximal, periodic discharges   FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings indicate the presence of diffuse, but left fronto-temporal maximal, potentially epileptogenic discharges superimposed on a severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Faster frequencies noted over the left hemisphere and prominence of discharges over this region may at least in part be associated with this patient's history of craniotomy on the left (i.e., they may represent breach rhythm); however, right hemispheric cortical injury cannot be completely excluded.  There were no definite electrographic seizures noted in this 3-day EEG, which was somewhat limited by frequent artifact.   
