HISTORY:

This is a 57 y.o. right handed female admitted for continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG)
monitoring with a history of: focal seizures with dyscognitive features.




Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Screening for subclinical seizures prior to repeat Wada
testing.


Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;






- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient's exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Impedances were measured and verified to be below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded
referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to computer hard drive.  Periods of interest
were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest and reviewed in detail.






Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.






The Gotman spike and seizure detection computer program (trademark named "Stellate") was used
to screen the EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG
were recorded periodically.  Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events
and detections, as well as selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS:

Phenobarbital 120 mg qhs


Ativan 0.5 mg qhs


SEDATION: None



DAY 1 (7/25/2016, 20:40 - 7/26/2016, 06:20)



BACKGROUND:


The waking background is continuous, symmetric, fairly-organized, and consists predominantly of
alpha and excess theta and beta.



Posterior dominant rhythm was present at 8-8.5 Hz.





The background is reactive and variable.



There is abundant, often sharply contoured, polymorphic slowing over the left temporal region.



Sleep was characterized by symmetric sleep spindles and K-complexes.


Note that study is disconnected between 7/26 06:20-08:30.





PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional left fronto-temporal (F7/T1 > F3 max) sharp waves, activated by sleep


2. Occasional right fronto-temporal sharp waves (F8 > F4/Fp2/T4 max) sharp waves, activated by
sleep
3. Rare low amplitude right anterior temporal (F8 max) spike-and-wave in sleep. These may represent
small sharp spikes.





ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.




EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events were reported or detected.




IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization


2. Abundant, often sharply contoured, polymorphic slowing over the left temporal region

3. Occasional left fronto-temporal (F7/T1 > F3 max) sharp waves, activated by sleep

4. Occasional right fronto-temporal sharp waves (F8 > F4/Fp2/T4 max) sharp waves, activated by
sleep

5. Rare low amplitude right anterior temporal (F8 max) spike-and-wave in sleep. These may represent
small sharp spikes.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:




These findings are indicative of bilateral fronto-temporal epileptogenic potential superimposed on
left temporal cerebral dysfunction (structural or physiologic in origin) and mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.


Excess beta can be seen in the setting of a medication effect.



There were no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.
