HISTORY:

32 y.o. female with a history of epilepsy referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures and management of seizure exacerbation.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

carBAMazepine (TEGRETOL) 100 mg chewable tablet, Take 5 tablets by mouth 3 times daily.

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.


clobazam (ONFI) 10 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with intermittent excess of theta, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz
posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present.





During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and further
background slowing, with diffuse semi-rhythmic delta, are seen.



Sleep is not captured


Mild generalized slowing is present.


Occasional polymorphic left temporal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. One run of left temporal rhythmic delta activity at 2.5 Hz for ~6 sec that does not clearly evolve.
There is no clinical correlate, but patient is not tested during this.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing




2. Occasional polymorphic left temporal slowing

3. Left temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA / left LRDA)



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of left temporal dysfunction superimposed on a mild diffuse
cerebral dysfunction.


Left temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity is consistent with left temporal epileptogenic
potential.
