DATE OF STUDY: 06/29/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 40-60 min, awake and drowsy





HISTORY:

a 69 y.o. female with a history of recent hospital discharge on anticonvulsant
medication, having problems with sleep disturbance, agitation, and hallucinations, referred for
routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.




MEDICATIONS:

Valproic acid



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:





The patient was noted to have a right-sided skull defect. The waking background is characterized by
the presence of a mildly disorganized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a 7-9
Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), at times somewhat better developed on the left. A large
amount of frontal eye blink and muscle artifact was seen.




During drowsiness, large amounts of slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of
the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



Asymmetric focal 2-4 Hz slowing is present most prominently over the right central greater than
frontotemporal regions.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy routine EEG due to:

1. Mild background disorganization and borderline slowing of dominant posterior rhythmic activity

2. Focal slowing over the right central greater than frontotemporal regions.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:





Generalized background slowing and disorganization may be seen with a variety of mild generalized
encephalopathies of various etiologies. The focal slow abnormality described the indicate a
localized functional disturbance involving the right anterior hemisphere although some of this
asymmetry may be a result of the underlying right sided skull defect. No clinical or electrographic
seizures were recorded. Clinical correlation is recommended.





Attending Epileptologist: 

I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.





































































