HISTORY:

27 y.o. male with a history of  Adult onset epilepsy, seizure free  for
one year referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


'Seizure semiology: Started in 2012, can start from sleep, feels bad taste and sweating, becomes
pale, eyes roll back, generalized shakiness, foamy and bloody sputum on mouth lasted for more than
7-10 min with 40 min post ictal confusion associated with tongue biting and urinary incontinency."
Memory loss



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

naproxen sodium (ALEVE) 220 mg Capsule, Take 20 mg by mouth daily as needed.


omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily (before meals) for
30 days.

? Keppra


TECHNIQUE:

A 1 hour  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:



The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive  10.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles. POSTS  and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Produces an increase in amplitude of the background


Photic Stimulation: Elicits vigorous symmetric driving at faster flash frequencies



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION: This is a normal 1 hour awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or
electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  This is similar to a previous study in 2014


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
























































































