HISTORY: 65 y.o. male with a history of high-grade, asymptomatic right carotid stenosis and moderate grade left carotid stenosis, prior L ICH referred for routine EEG for OR monitoring.  MEDICATIONS: Current Facility-Administered Medications: ceFAZolin (ANCEF) 2 g in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB lactated ringers infusion acetaminophen (OFIRMEV) injection 1,000 mg HYDROmorphone (DILAUDID) injection 0.5 mg Rocuronium SEDATION: fentanyl, etomidate  TECHNIQUE: Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.  The TUH standard intraoperative montage was utilized.  Recording includes a brief baseline (10minutes) followed by continuous recording throughout the procedure. The study was monitored live with EEG physician via remote review.   EEG BACKGROUND: 7:40 AM The 10-minute waking background is low voltage symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by scant but symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Intermittent Left frontotemporal focal slowing is present.  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: No epileptiform activity is present. HEART RATE: An irregular  heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead. Operative section: 8:40 AM  Patient is awake, induction occurs at 8:42.  This produces bursts of generalized slowing and then a briefly discontinuous record followed by a continuous pattern. The sedated pattern, prior to first incision, is asymmetric.  The record is a little higher amplitude and a little more irregular on the left compared to the right.  The right is consistently lower voltage and a little less featureless. CLAMP: 11:11 AM 2 hours 31 minutes duration: No changes were noted in the record with placement of the clamp or with removable clamp.  A lighter level of sedation was noted in the final few minutes of the recording IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION: This intraoperative monitor EEG was remarkable for an asymmetric baseline, prior to the use of anesthetic agents.  This asymmetry persisted throughout the study.  No additional focal features were noted in association with clamping of the right carotid. 
