HISTORY: 62 y.o. male with a history of bilateral CVAs, HTN, CHF, pacemaker referred for a follow up EEG bedside portable study for assessment of mental status change.  MEDICATIONS: none listed  SEDATION: None listed  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG. This study was reviewed on date of service; below report generated at later date.   DAY 1 (1/11/2016, 11:52 - 1/12/2016, 13:20)  EEG BACKGROUND: The background is continuous, reactive, and asymmetric.   During periods without muscle artifact, the left hemisphere consists of a mixture of disorganized alpha, beta, and theta activity. There is no definite posterior dominant rhythm. The right hemisphere consists of a disorganized, attenuated mixture of alpha and theta.  During periods with diffuse muscle artifact (seen more over the left temporal region), background rhythms consists of disorganized delta with admixed theta, with attenuated amplitudes over the right hemisphere.  Drowsiness and sleep are characterized by further slowing of background to delta-theta range frequencies. Asymmetry between hemispheres becomes less pronounced. Sleep transients are not captured.  There is moderate generalized slowing.   There is continuous attenuation of frequencies over the right hemisphere.   EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  HEART RATE: An irregular heart beat in the 60s-80s is captured on a single EKG lead. Rarely, bouts of tachycardia to the 170s-180s is noted.  FINAL IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal long-term video EEG due to: 1. Moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization 2. Continuous attenuation of frequencies over the right hemisphere 3. An irregular heart beat captured on a single EKG lead with bouts of tachycardia  FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings indicate the presence of right hemispheric dysfunction/cortical injury, likely structural in etiology, superimposed on moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction. An irregular heart beat with rare bouts of tachycardia is captured on a single EKG lead. 
