HISTORY: 20 y.o. male presents from OSH after having 10 seizure episodes. Pt has had seizures since childhood after head trauma. 2 brothers have epilepsy  MEDICATIONS: Current Facility-Administered Medications: divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 24 hr tablet 1,000 mg divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 24 hr tablet 500 mg sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg levothyroxine (SYNTHROID) tablet 25 mcg levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 2,000 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB lacosamide (VIMPAT) 200 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion   SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.    DAY 1 (1/16/2017, 10:00 - 1/17/2017, 06:00) Limited wakefulness reveals a background activity was characterized by diffuse theta activity with an absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies. The posterior dominant rhythm is poorly formed an at best 8Hz.  During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.   Sleep is atypical characterized by very periodic 1 Hz vertex waves with a lower amplitude over the right temporal leads.    EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.   EVENTS: Multiple seizures are captured of varying intensity. At worst he was having 5 per hour. They improved but at the end of the record they restart to about 3 per hour. Sudden attenuation followed by a is a generalized paroxysmal fast activity that then becomes intermittent and suddenly stops. They last about 30 seconds. Clinically the patient suddenly raises his head tonically (may turn to the right), while he raises both arms laterally with flexed elbows at time in an asymmetric fashion with the right more flexed than the left. Then this may be followed by tonic forward extension and some clonic movement at the end.   HEART RATE: A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  DAY 1 IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to: 1. Multiple frequent generalized seizures  2. Moderate generalized slow waves  CLINICAL CORRELATION: The seizures appear to have a generalized onset suggestive of generalized epilepsy. In addition, there diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.   ---------------------------------------------------------------- DAY 2 (1/17/2017, 08:00 - 1/18/2017, 08:00) Limited wakefulness reveals a background activity was characterized by diffuse theta activity with an absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies. The posterior dominant rhythm is poorly formed an at best 8Hz.  During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.   Sleep is atypical characterized by very periodic 1 Hz vertex waves with a lower amplitude over the right temporal leads.    EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.   EVENTS: Seizures stop around 11 am and only 1 more is captured at 4:03 PM Sudden attenuation followed by a is a generalized paroxysmal fast activity that then becomes intermittent and suddenly stops. They last about 30 seconds. Clinically the patient suddenly raises his head tonically (may turn to the right), while he raises both arms laterally with flexed elbows at time in an asymmetric fashion with the right more flexed than the left. Then this may be followed by tonic forward extension and some clonic movement at the end.   HEART RATE: A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  DAY 2 IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to: 1. Improved generalized seizures  2. Moderate generalized slow waves  CLINICAL CORRELATION: The seizures appear to have a generalized onset suggestive of generalized epilepsy. In addition, there diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  ---------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 3 (1/18/2017, 08:00 - 1/19/2017, 9:00) Wakefulness reveals a background activity was characterized by anterior beta to posterior alpha with a normal gradient of frequencies. The posterior dominant rhythm is poorly formed an at best 9Hz. Mild excessive theta is seen.  During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.   Sleep is atypical characterized by very periodic 1 Hz vertex waves with a lower amplitude over the right temporal leads.    EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  EVENTS: Seizures stopped  HEART RATE: A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  DAY 3  IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to: 1. mild generalized slow waves  CLINICAL CORRELATION: There mild diffuse background slowing.  This finding is etiologically nonspecific indicator of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  
