HISTORY:

55 y.o. male with a history of single seizure

last month, known prior CVA  referred for routine EEG for


characterization of seizures. MRI shows: extensive right

frontotemporoparietal gliosis and associated encephalomalacia

resulting in ex vacuo dilatation of the


right lateral and third ventricles, in keeping with history of

remote right MCA territory infarct. Scattered foci of

susceptibility artifact within this area are compatible with


chronic blood products


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 650 mg CR tablet, Take 650 mg by mouth

every 8 hours as needed for Pain.


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.




sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim (BACTRIM DS) 800-160 mg per tablet,

Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


escitalopram oxalate (LEXAPRO) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth

daily.


lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth

daily.

metoprolol tartrate (LOPRESSOR) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth

2 times daily.


gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 3

times daily.


clopidogrel (PLAVIX) 75 mg tablet, Take 75 mg by mouth daily.

tamsulosin (FLOMAX) 0.4 mg 24 hr capsule, Take 0.4 mg by mouth

daily.

valproic acid, as sodium salt, (DEPAKENE) 250 mg/5 mL Solution,


Take 10 mLs by mouth 2 times daily.

aspirin 81 mg chewable tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: none



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically challenging record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is  Abnormal.  There is a prominent

intrahemispheric asymmetry, with a slow, featureless pattern on

the right. On the left, there is mild excess theta and an 8.5 Hz


reactive PDR. Left central mu was seen, though testing not

performed to confirm this.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen on the left.



Sleep is remarkable for spindles, better seen on the left.



Generalized slowing is present.

Focal slowing is present.

Continuous ADA on the right



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: not possible


Photic Stimulation: - patient drifting off to stage II sleep



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.

Electrode pop was noted.

HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 50 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous R focal slowing, with disruption of faster

frequency activity and low voltage delta

2. Mild slowing on the left



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are suggestive of  Structural  Process on the

right, congruent with stroke history.  This EEG is markedly


improved compared Jan 2016 EEG
