HISTORY:

35 y.o. female with a history of reported

seizures since age 7 and polysubstance abuse, on methadone,


referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS: home medications listed as METHADONE, PROZAC,


TRILEPTAL, TOPAMAX, GABAPENTIN. Tech notes that patient has not

yet received methadone.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and




included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically


with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with waxing and waning cooperation and produces mild


diffuse symmetric background slowing.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes. An


episode of stiffening with eyes rolled back, described below,

occurs at 11 Hz photic stimulation.



EVENTS:


11:04:18

CLINICAL: Tech notes "leg jerk." On video review, legs are not on


screen, but isolated brief body jerk noted. This occurs 88

seconds into hyperventilation.


EEG: There is no ictal cerebral correlate.


11:04:43

CLINICAL: Tech notes "jerky." On video review, patient has


isolated brief jerk of trunk towards right. This occurs 116

seconds into hyperventilation.


EEG: There is no ictal cerebral correlate.


11:10:23, duration ~5 min 3 sec

CLINICAL: During 11 Hz photic stimulation, patient opens eyes


slightly. They are rolled back. She stiffens her trunk, then her

arms - tech notes the left arm is bended and the right arm is


straight (forearms not captured on video). Her eyes flutter, then

close. Dr comes in immediately. Patient does not

follow commands or speak. She opens her eyes slightly (40

seconds). She no longer appears stiff. She resists eye exam and


turns her head away from doctor, towards right. Still does not

answer questions or follow commands. Appears to resist exam. She


opens and closes her mouth and blinks her eyes. At 124 seconds,

she follows commands and answers questions, but avoids eye

contact. She does not follow commands. She closes her eyes. She

begins to cry.  By 216 seconds she begins to speak, but does not


know what test she is having and cannot state the code word.

EEG: no EEG cerebral changes are seen; posterior dominant rhythm


is seen intermittently. There is diffuse muscle artifact and

occasional glossokinetic/chew artifact.

EKG: Heart rate increases from 70s to 80s.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION / CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy routine EEG.

The isolated jerks described above had no EEG cerebral correlate


and are unlikely to represent seizure.

The episode of eyes rolled back with body stiffening that


occurred at 11:10 had no ictal EEG cerebral correlate and is most

consistent with a nonepileptic behavioral event.
