HISTORY:

a 52 y.o. female with a history of ILD/pulmonary

fibrosis, chronic hypoxic respiratory failure, GERD, and


gastroparesis referred for EEG to assess brain function prior to

transplant and to assess for right shoulder twitching.



MEDICATIONS / SEDATION: Previously was on higher dose of versed;

currently receiving Versed, Ativan. Cisatracurium documented as

being administered at 12:34.



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The background is continuous and symmetric but disorganized,


consisting of a mixture of delta and theta with admixed alpha

frequencies.


There is no clear posterior dominant rhythm.


The background is reactive and variable, during times of relative

wakefulness and/or after noxious stimulation there is increased


prevalence of alpha and theta activity and less delta.



Moderate generalized slowing is present.

There is no focal slowing.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.



EVENTS:

CLINICAL: As the study opens, the patient's right side of the

head and trunk are visualized on camera. There are continuous,

multifocal twitching movements of the shoulder, followed by neck,


and then trunk, best seen on the right.

EEG: There is no clear underlying change in cerebral rhythms.


However, much of EEG is obscured by diffuse high amplitude muscle

artifact, lasting 1 second at a time, occurring every 2 seconds.


Both the movements and the artifact appear to lessen in amplitude


by 12:33. By 12:34 the tech has made an annotation that the

patient received cisatracurium.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 108 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal asleep only routine EEG due to:


1. Moderate generalized slowing and background disorganization

2. Episodes of shoulder, neck, and then trunk twitching, better

seen on the patient's right, which had no EEG cerebral correlate

and improved following administration of neuromuscular blockade.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of moderate diffuse cerebral

dysfunction. The twitching episodes described above are unlikely

to represent seizure activity.
