HISTORY:

66 y.o. female with a history of generalized epilepsy, previously with a pattern of
generalized spike and wave activity.  Generally, seizure-free but with ischemic white matter changes,
memory decline.  Recent treatment for cancer with syncopal spell at the bus stop referred for routine
EEG for assessment of mental status change.




MEDICATIONS:


Current Facility-Administered Medications:

topiramate (TOPAMAX) tablet 100 mg

aspirin chewable tablet 81 mg


TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and verbal  stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:






The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
theta alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7-8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  There is
generous theta noted in the background.  There are isolated bursts of paroxysmal rhythmic 4 Hz
activity


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


The patient seems to be very sleepy and abundant stage II sleep with vertex K complexes and
spindles were noted



Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None

OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): Rare bursts of underlying paroxysmal 3-4
Hz activity



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Tactile stimulation produces an alerting


EVENTS: There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of  72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1.  Mild generalized background slowing

CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings have been seen in similar EEGs in recent years.  No
generalized spike and wave activity was identified in addition excess theta, this patient also appears
to be very sleepy.  This finding may be correlated with clinical features.
