HISTORY:

20 y.o. female with a history of refactory epiepsy, vestibular migraine, and
anxiety, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, Take 750 mg by mouth. 2 bid

lacosamide (VIMPAT) 100 mg Tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth every 12 hours.


verapamil (CALAN-SR) 180 mg CR tablet, Take 180 mg by mouth nightly.

PARoxetine (PAXIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth every morning.

venlafaxine (EFFEXOR) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth 3 times daily.


folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days.

mometasone (ELOCON) 0.1 % ointment, Apply a thin film to itchy, scaly rash once daily after shower
as needed. Not for use at face, armpits, groin.



SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by a high amplitude, fairly organized mixture of sharply
contoured alpha, beta, and excess of delta frequencies. Occasionally, an irregular 8-8.5 Hz posterior
dominant rhythm is seen. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is
present but suboptimal.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, with bursts of high amplitude sharply contoured theta and delta and further
background slowing are seen.




Sleep transients are not captured.


Mild generalized slowing is present.


Frequent bilateral independent and synchronous posterior quadrant polymorphic slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Occasional (1/hour to <1min) bioccipital independent (O1/O2 max) spike/polyspike and wave,
activated by eyeblinks



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.  Patient became anxious and reported a panic
attack and that her head was "jumping" during photic stimulation, particularly at 13 Hz. Photic
driving with sharply contoured frequencies is noted during this time, but these findings do not outlast
the photic flashes. Bilateral posterior quadrant slowing with embedded spikes is noted with flashes at
15-21 Hz, which are similar in appearance to interictal findings and do not clearly outlast the flash,
though may represent a photoparoxsymal response.








EVENTS:

See under


No other events.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Frequent bilateral independent and synchronous posterior quadrant polymorphic slowing


2. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) bioccipital independent (O1/O2 max) spike/polyspike and wave,
activated by eyeblinks and also noted during photic stimulation (possible photoparoxysmal response)



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of a bioccipital epileptogenic focus superimposed on bilateral
posterior quadrant dysfunction and a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
