HISTORY:

53 y.o. male with a history of AKI, HCV, schizophrenia, seizures, bipolar, HTN,
asthma, COPD, anxiety, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures, which his last
reported was 2 wks ago.




MEDICATIONS:

Keppra 500 mg q12h


Also: lorazepam, heparin, tramadol, methadone, others


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:



The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles
and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


During drowsiness, a run of theta waves in seen in isolation over F4 electrode that increases to alpha
frequency, with duration of <3 seconds. There is no increase in amplitude, nor spread to other
regions.
There is no associated clinical change in the patient at this time; he remains asleep.


Given the presence of isolated electrode artifact in this electrode at other times during the study, this
change is felt to be artifactual in nature.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.


The rhythm described above is felt most consistent with artifact.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.




A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
