HISTORY:

53 y.o. female with a history of

paraneoplastic syndrome and localization related epilepsy


referred for routine EEG as a follow up study.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 40 mg capsule, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.

rosuvastatin (CRESTOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.


OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 150 mg tablet, Take 450 mg by mouth 2

times daily.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1,000 mg by mouth 2


times daily.



SEDATION: None







TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm


(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing with bursts of sharply contoured theta and


alpha frequencies are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No generalized slowing is present.

There is occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) sharp-and-slow waves are seen over

the left temporal region (F7/T1/T3 max)




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None




ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:




Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric


background slowing.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.




HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing

2. Frequent left temporal sharp-and-slow waves




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left temporal

epileptogenic potentials superimposed on left temporal cerebral


dysfunction.
