HISTORY:

64 y.o. male with a history of schizophrenia, hypertension, atrial fibrillation,
bipolar disorder, diabetes, CHF, COPD, admitted from an outside hospital post cardiopulmonary
arrest. He was referred for a bedside EEG for screening for subclinical seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


valproate (DEPACON) 500 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB

LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg

aspirin chewable tablet 81 mg


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 10 mg

albuterol 5 mg/3.5 mL combination mixture for nebulization

budesonide (PULMICORT) nebulizer solution 0.5 mg


pantoprazole (PROTONIX) injection 40 mg

ipratropium (ATROVENT) 0.02 % nebulizer solution 0.5 mg

senna (SENOKOT) tablet 1 tablet




metoprolol (LOPRESSOR) injection 5 mg



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel bedside electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The patient was unresponsive and intubated during the study. The record demonstrates burst
suppression activity throughout the tracing, with 1-5 second bursts of medium amplitude bitemporal
sharp and generalized slow activity and 1-4 second interburst intervals of generalized voltage and
frequency attenuation. In response to noxious fingernail stimulation, some patient movement was
observed although there was no appreciable change in cerebral electrical activity.





ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


EKG monitor demonstrates a heart rate of 90 per minute with occasional PVCs and intraventricular
conduction deficit.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal bedside EEG in an intubated unresponsive patient due to:


1. Continuous burst suppression activity.

2. Absence of background reactivity to noxious painful stimulation.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate a severe generalized disturbance of cerebral cortical activity consistent with
anoxic encephalopathy. Serial EEG recordings may be helpful for assessment of neurologic
prognosis.
