HISTORY:

52 y.o. female with a history of R MCA stroke

referred for routine EEG for assessment of L sided weakness and


numbness and chest pain.


MEDICATIONS: no AEDs noted



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:




The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.


Most of the study consists of drowsiness. During drowsiness, slow


rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the

posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are


seen.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional runs of sharply contoured alpha waves are seen


synchronously over the bilateral temporal regions during

drowsiness. These have the appearance of a benign variant (wicket


waves).


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.


Runs of sharply contoured alpha waves over the bitemporal regions

are most consistent with wicket waves, a benign variant.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.
