HISTORY:

59 y.o. female with a history of epilepsy followed by TBI with right frontal
temporoparietal craniotomy with encephalomalacia in the right inferolateral frontal and anterolateral
temporal lobes referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours for 360 days.

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 2.5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.

ascorbic acid (VITAMIN C) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth daily.


multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.




TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. Also in drowsiness, subtle focal slowing
can be seen.




Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  Subtle focal slowing is present in the right hemisphere during
drowsiness and hyperventilation only.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
rare focal slowing in the right centrotemporal region



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) produces
slightly asymmetric driving, more prominent on the right.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a mildly abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to subtle focal slowing in the right
centrotemporal region. There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is the fourth EEG for this patient.  The two studies this year have not identified epileptiform
activity.  The studies from the previous years are not available for comparison.


This routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
