HISTORY:

81 y.o. male with a history of dementia and "seizures" over the past 4
months, occurring up to 7 times per day. Description of his "seizures" was not available. He was
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions: Percocet, Ecotrin, Flomax, hydroxyzine, potassium chloride,
omeprazole, finasteride, allopurinol, furosemide, colchicine, docusate, polyethylene glycol, vitamin
D3, trazodone.




No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterizedpredominantly by generalized very low amplitude beta
activity. A small amount of poorly sustained 7-8  Hertz posterior rhythmic activity was seen. The
patient was briefly mumbling unintelligibly. Video recording demonstrated a large amount of head,
arm and trunk movement with associated with muscle artifact. EKG artifact was also seen.




During much of the tracing, the patient appeared drowsy, with slow attenuation and fragmentation of
the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84  bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:







1. Mild slowing of dominant posterior rhythm during wakefulness. Some of this slowing may have
been secondary to drowsiness. Clinical symptoms in question were not apparent during the study. If
clinically indicated, a more prolonged EEG or ambulatory recording may provide additional helpful
information.
