HISTORY:

39 y.o. male with a history of headaches

post-TBI.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


metoclopramide (REGLAN) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth 4 times

daily.

HYDROcodone-acetaminophen (NORCO) 5-325 mg per tablet, Take 1


tablet by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain.

cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth 3

times daily as needed for Muscle spasms.


amitriptyline (ELAVIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

nightly.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 systemwith T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Patient very rapidly transitions between wakefulness and sleep.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180


seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric

background slowing.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no


clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.



Patient very rapidly transitions between wakefulness and sleep-


please correlate with a possible underlying sleep disorder.
