HISTORY:

25 y.o. female with a history of migraine headaches associated with twitching for
the past year, and 1 episode of LOC (other symptoms: nausea/vomiting, headache occurs mostly
during sleep)



referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

acetaminophen-codeine (TYLENOL #3) 300-30 mg per tablet,

PNV #26-iron ps-folic acid-dha 29 mg iron- 1 mg-200 mg Capsule, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


ondansetron (ZOFRAN) 4 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 8 hours as needed for Nausea.

ALBUTEROL IN, Inhale  into the lungs as needed.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:




A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:




This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
