HISTORY:

21 y.o. male who presented with acute onset of

aphasia, concerning for a stroke vs complicated migraine vs


seizure.


MEDICATIONS:


Ativan


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG







EEG BACKGROUND:


There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower

waveforms over the left.


The background over the right consists of moderate amplitude 9.5

Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eye opening.  The AP

(anterior-to-posterior) gradient is present.

The background over the left consists of fragmented 9 Hz alpha


activity posteriorly, absent AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient

and diffuse polymorphic delta activity that is most prominent


over the anterior and middle quadrants.


Sleep spindles and vertex waves are captured.  Sleep architecture

is better visualized over the right.





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


Focal slowing - continuous - moderate -to-severe - left

hemispheric - especially over the anterior and middle quadrants


Asymmetry sleep architecture  - better visualized over the right

Sleep stage II - present



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep portable 22-minute EEG due

to continuous moderate-to-severe left hemispheric slowing that is

most pronounced over the left anterior and middle quadrants and

asymmetry of sleep architecture, with architecture better


visualized over the right hemisphere.



Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural

lesion in this region.
