HISTORY:

24 y.o. female with a history of unwitnessed cardiac arrest (found down after 10
min), asystole, s/p 2 rounds epi and chest compressions, diagnosed with anoxic brain injury,
polysubustance abuse disorder, and bipolar disorder, referred for stat portable bedside EEG for
evaluation of movements during coma.




MEDICATIONS: norepinephrine, heparin



SEDATION: pt given 1 mg Ativan during study



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The background consists of suppressed disorganized delta.





There is no reactivity, variability, or state change.



There is severe generalized slowing.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY, OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM), EVENTS:

1. Continuous periodic diffuse delta waves occurring every 3-4 seconds, phase reversing over F7, F8-
T4, sometimes occurring synchronously across the hemispheres, other times bilateral independent.
This is not clearly epileptic, and may be associated with subtle eye flutter on video.



2. Continuous neck flexion movements, also occurring every 3-4 seconds, but independent from the
aforementioned delta waves. These are associated with movement artifact on EEG only (no
epileptiform discharges)



There is no change in this activity after 1 mg Ativan given



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 144 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal stat bedside EEG due to:

1. Severe generalized slowing, with background disorganization and lack of reactivity


2. Continuous diffuse and bilaterally independent delta waves, not clearly epileptiform, possibly
associated with subtle eye movement on video


3. Continuous neck flexion movements, independent from #2, without clear associated epileptiform
activity

4. Tachycardia



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of a severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction. The bilaterally
independent delta waves described above are not clearly epileptiform and may be associated with
eye flutter. The neck flexion movements are not associated with epileptiform activity.



These findings were discussed with the neurology consult service.
