HISTORY:

53 y.o. man with a history of seizures since 1992 s/p cerebral abscess removal
(left skull defect). Patient states his last seizure was one day ago.


PMH: breathing problems



MEDICATIONS:

Keppra, Dilantin, Percocet, Oxycodone



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. Also see epileptiform activity below.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Bifrontal spike and wave discharges are seen. This discharges appear to have a mainly left prefrontal
(Fp1) predominance at onset with rapid bifrontal spread.

During drowsiness and sleep this spike and wave become more prominent followed by along run
(~1min) of bi-frontal slowing with intermittent spike and wave. This runs stops with stimulation.




Left fronto- temporal sharp waves at F7/T3.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

1. Left frontal spike and wave

2. Left fronto-temporal sharp waves




3. Bilatetral pre-frontal slow wave maximal on the left.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to left prefronal spike and wave with rapid
spread and slowing as well as left fronto temporal sharp waves. These findings indicate the presence
of epileptogenic focus in that region.




No clear seizures were seen.
