HISTORY:

33 y.o. woman with prior EEG here at TUH. Presented to TUH ED 11/9 for 6
seizures. PMH: endocarditis and strokes.





MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 250 mg tablet, Take 3 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.




No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

There is a posterior dominant rhythm that is best seen over the left hemisphere and at best reaches 8
Hz. Otherwise there is diffuse 5-7Hz activity that is disorganized and with superimposed excessive
diffuse beta.




There are bursts of frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity at 1-3Hz which at times have a more
triphasic morphology.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with  vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-
complexes best seen on the left. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right hemisphere maximal in the right anterior
temporal region with associated loss of faster frequencies. At time this focal slowing appears to
become very monomorphic but not clearly evolve.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) right mid-temporal sharp waves are seen.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:




A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



1. Right mid-temporal sharp waves, frequent

2. Continuous right hemisphere focal slow wave maximal in the anterior temporal region.

3. Frontal predominant rhythmic generalized periodic discharges

4. Diffuse slow waves, mild to moderate.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to frequent right mid-temporal sharp waves
as well as right hemisphere continuous focal slow waves maximal in the anterior temporal region,
which is suggestive of a region of focal cortical structural dysfunction and irritability. This area
appears to be highly epileptogenic. In addition there is frontal predominant rhythmic generalized
periodic discharges

and diffuse slow waves both of which are indicative of a diffuse cerebral dysfunction and non-specific
with regards to etiology.































