HISTORY:

25 y.o. male with a history of idiopathic generalized epilepsy.



MEDICATIONS:

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits:

[START ON 2/9/2017] ergocalciferol (DRISDOL) drops 2,000 Units 0.25 mL


sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg


alum-mag hydroxide-simeth (MYLANTA;MAALOX) 200-200-20 mg/5 mL suspension 30 mL

LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg

enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 1,500 mg








SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




Patient remains awake throughout the recording.




Mild underriding diffuse theta activity is seen.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Several low amplitude generalized frontally predominant spikes with aftergoing slow waves are
captured.  Their frequency increases during photic stimulation.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) produces bursts
of generalized irregular spike-and-wave and polyspike-and-wave discharges, lasting up to 9 seconds
(photoparoxysmal response).  This response is most pronounced at 5, 7, 9 fps.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.




HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:

(1) very mild diffuse slowing

(2) several generalized frontally predominant spikes and wave complexes


(3) robust photoparoxysmal response



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are consistent with patient's known diagnosis of idiopathic generalized epilepsy.


Mild diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.
