DATE OF STUDY: 05/12/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 60 min - 3 hr, awake only





HISTORY:

23yo Female with a HX of generalized epilepsy. Pt is having episodes of being
shaky and anxious. She has had a total of 4 episodes. EEG to rule out sz. referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 500 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:






A  1 hour Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.
The patient was very anxious throughout the study




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  There Was
generous beta




During limited drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the
posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured

No generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Photic stimulation elicits frontally predominant spike and wave activity of 3-5 Hz.  This was seen
initially at the 7 Hz stimulation.  After this, the patient became very anxious.  Subsequent photic
stimulation demonstrates both some subtle underlying spike and wave activity and some blink
artifact, confounding clear identification of all epileptiform discharges.  The longest discharges may
have been 3 seconds in duration.  Some, including at 19 Hz included beta fast activity before the
frontal delta.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: There is no reactivity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.



Hyperventilation: Elicits an increase in amplitude and a small amount of slowing


Photic Stimulation: Elicits a photoparoxysmal response as described above .  The bursts never outlast
the stimulus.  The patient never had it impaired responsiveness during the discharges




EVENTS:

There are  electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 126 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. frontally predominant spike and wave activity elicited by photic stimulation, without clinical
impairment but with a feeling of nervousness reported by the patient



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate a generalized mechanism for epilepsy.  Of note, the patient was nervous
before the photic stimulation was tachycardic throughout suggesting that there may be more than
one problem at present.









































