HISTORY:

37 y.o. male with a history of cocaine and OxyContin overdose, found
unresponsive, with seizure after administration of Narcan, referred for EEG for assessment of mental
status change.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion

etomidate (AMIDATE) injection


rocuronium (ZEMURON) injection

fentaNYL (SUBLIMAZE) 1 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL infusion

pantoprazole (PROTONIX) injection 40 mg


sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion




enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg

midazolam (VERSED) 50 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 50 mL infusion


dextrose 5 % and sodium chloride 0.45 % infusion





SEDATION: Versed, fentanyl



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The patient was intubated and unresponsive during most of the tracing. Background demonstrates a
moderate amount of low to medium amplitude 11-12 Hz activity which is fairly diffusely distributed,
with occasional periods of generalized voltage attenuation and diffuse slowing. Occasional sharply
contoured delta activity phase reversing at the vertex were seen having the appearance of vertex
sleep transients. No significant change in background was noted in response to auditory stimulation.
With noxious tactile stimulation, the patient was reported to exhibit withdrawal response. EEG
demonstrated increased amplitude semirhythmic 3-5 Hz activity with superimposed muscle artifact.






EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 88 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal ICU bedside EEG due to:




1. The appearance of generalized alpha activity in poorly responsive patient, suggestive of "alpha
coma".



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


Although alpha coma is often associated with poor neurologic outcome, reactivity of background and
withdrawal response to noxious painful stimulation seen during this study are somewhat positive
prognostic indicators. Serial EEG monitoring is recommended to assist with neurologic assessment
and more definitive prognostic determination.
