HISTORY:

51 y.o. male with a history of post-traumatic seizures (most recently: 1 wk prior;
occur several times a year; per report: anxiety followed by tonic clonic convulsion with retained
awareness, followed by postictal fatigue), referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS: Depakote



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Abundant polymorphic right temporal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Frequent low amplitude right centroparietal (C4/P4>F4/T4) spike and wave. At times these have
broad field that includes bitemporal regions.


2. Occasional right frontal (Fp2 max) sharp waves, activated by sleep



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Abundant polymorphic right temporal slowing

2. Frequent low amplitude right centroparietal (C4/P4>F4/T4) spike and wave. At times these have
broad field that includes bitemporal regions.


3. Occasional right frontal (Fp2 max) sharp waves, activated by sleep




CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of right centroparietal and right frontal epileptogenic
discharges superimposed on right temporal cerebral dysfunction.






































































