HISTORY:

a 63 y.o. male with PMH DM, HTN, HLD, carotid

stenosis who presented with headache followed by left hemiplegia,


found to have multifocal acute nonhemorrhagic right ACA/MCA

territory infarcts, with the largest area of involvement in the

anterior frontal lobe, and chronic infarcts in the inferior right


frontal lobe and right parieto-occipital region. He is referred

for routine EEG for possible seizures given a fluctuating left

hemiparesis.



MEDICATIONS: zoloft



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the




International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous but asymmetric.

The left hemisphere is characterized by a fairly well organized

mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with mild excess of delta.


There are fragments of an irregular posterior dominant rhythm of

9 Hz.


The right hemisphere consists of an attenuated mixture of alpha

and beta frequencies; the posterior dominant rhythm is less

clearly seen.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior

dominant rhythm, and further background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.


There is mild generalized slowing.


There is continuous attenuation of faster frequencies on the

right.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal background

organization

2. Continuous attenuation of faster frequencies on the right


hemisphere



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of right hemispheric

cortical dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, superimposed

on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. The finding of right


hemispheric attenuation is consistent with the patient's history

of cortical infarcts on the right. A postictal state, however,


cannot completely be ruled out.


If clinically warranted, a repeat study or prolonged study may be

useful to capture an episode of hemiparesis.
