HISTORY: 72 y.o. female with a history of PE in July, chronic PTE referred for routine EEG for intra-operative monitor.  MEDICATIONS: Current Outpatient Prescriptions: omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 20 mg by mouth daily. furosemide (LASIX) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily. losartan (COZAAR) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. apixaban (ELIQUIS) 5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. citalopram (CELEXA) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. levothyroxine (SYNTHROID, LEVOTHROID) 125 mcg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. Alprazolam (XANAX) 0.25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly as needed for Sleep.  SEDATION: etomidate, versed, fentanyl  TECHNIQUE: An intraoperative monitor with  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and brief wake baseline, then operative study. Study was monitored by two physicians with 1:1 remote review outside of the OR.  EEG BACKGROUND: The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.   OPERATIVE EEG:  The patient is awake in the initial sections.  Induction of anesthesia occurs at: 10:43 Intubation 10:45 AM - this is followed by a discontinuous pattern.   Shifting asymmetries were noted after induction and the record became suppressed with shifting asymmetries.  Cooling: 12:15 PM As this begins, the EEG is increasingly suppressed, and there were occasional left temporal sharp waves. The EEG was suppressed at 1:19  Rewarming: 14:30- as the EEG returns shifting asymmetries were noted. At times, the right was more suppressed than the left, similar to the pre-incision pattern.   Recording concluded at 16:20 with a continuous relatively symmetric pattern.    EVENTS: HEART RATE: A heart rate of 78-89 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  IMPRESSION /CLINICAL CORRELATION: This intra-operative EEG demonstrated transient suppression with hypothermia. Shifting slowing may be correlated with baseline imaging. Transient sharp waves can occur with hypothermia.   
