HISTORY:

48 y.o. male with a history of excessive daytime sleepiness, syncope and tinnitus
referred for routine EEG for syncope vs. seizure



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

Clobetasol 0.05 % Spray, Non-Aerosol, Use daily during weekdays

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 400 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain.


hydrocortisone 2.5 % ointment, Apply daily to patches hair loss beard daily during weekdays

betamethasone dipropionate 0.05 % ointment, Apply twice a day to spots of hair loss

Diltiazem HCl Powder, Apply pea sized amount to the anus tid


metoprolol (TOPROL-XL) 100 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days.

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. D/C clonidine

chlorthalidone (HYGROTEN) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


acetaminophen-codeine (TYLENOL-CODEINE #3) 300-30 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth
every 6 hours as needed for Pain.





No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz 30mV posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured. Multiple snore arousals captured
during sleep.




No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Multiple snore arousals captured.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds, patient falls asleep while
hyperventilating.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) produces
photoelectric artifact and drowsiness is noted.






EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60-72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected. Multiple snore arousals noted.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. Hypersomnolence and
snore arousals can be part of an underlying sleep deficit or sleep disorder. Alternative testing may be
of value.
