HISTORY: 64 y.o. female with a history of nontraumatic right parietotemporal lobar hematoma since 5/23, with mass effect on the ventricles and  midline shift, referred for long term EEG for screening for subclinical seizures and assessment of mental status change.  MEDICATIONS: Keppra, amantadine, lovenox, protonix, others  SEDATION: None listed  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (6/23/2016, 15:42 - 6/24/2016, 15:51)  BACKGROUND: The waking background is continuous and reactive but asymmetric. The left hemisphere consists of fairly organized sharply contoured theta with admixed alpha and beta. Fragments of an irregular posterior dominant rhythm of 9 Hz are seen occasionally.  The right hemisphere consists of poorly organized theta and delta with attenuated faster frequencies. There is no definite posterior dominant rhythm. At times during arousal theta slowing becomes more rhythmic, especially over the left hemisphere, with admixed delta. There is no clear evolution.  Drowsiness is characterized by attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm with further background slowing. The hemispheric asymmetry becomes less clear.  In sleep, rare spindles are seen, better over the left.  There is mild to moderate generalized slowing.  Note that background is intermittently obscured by diffuse muscle artifact on this day.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  1. Rare left anterior temporal (T1 max > F7/T3) sharp waves in sleep  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s-90s.  IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal, somewhat limited-by-artifact, long term video EEG due to: 1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization 2. Continuous right hemispheric slowing and attenuation of faster frequencies 3. Rare left anterior temporal (T1 max > F7/T3) sharp waves in sleep  CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are consistent with right cortical and cerebral dysfunction superimposed on mild-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, with left anterior temporal epileptogenic potential. There were no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected. 
