HISTORY:

78 y.o. male with a history of evacuation of left brain referred for routine EEG for
assessment of mental status change.



MEDICATIONS:


Keppra


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is characterized by the presence of a mildly disorganized symmetric mixture
of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7-8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). Anteriorly predominant low amplitude 18-30 Hz activity was seen. Frequent medium
amplitude irregular 1-4 Hz activity was seen over much of the left hemisphere, maximum over frontal,
central and temporal regions.





During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Brief periods of sleep were marked by attenuation of beta activity and increased low to medium
amplitude left greater than right hemispheric slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 80 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild diffuse slowing and disorganization of dominant posterior rhythmic activity.


2. Left hemispheric irregular slowing.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



The mild generalized background slowing and disorganization are nonspecific and can be seen with
a variety of mild generalized encephalopathies of various etiologies. Superimposed left hemispheric
slow activity indicates a lateralized functional disturbance involving predominantly left hemisphere,
without epileptiform discharges recorded. No clinical or electrical seizures were noted. These
changes are consistent with the patient's known history of left subdural hematoma.

