DATE OF STUDY: 05/05/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: OR monitor


EEG TYPE: Intraoperative monitoring, awake and asleep 6. 5hours recording, in two files. The first
section begins after 6 AM and the second section ends at 14:!6 for total recording time 6 hours 20
minutes




HISTORY:

a 75 y.o. female with a history of pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary thrombosis
referred for routine EEG for EEG monitoring during therapeutic hypothermia.



MEDICATIONS:

Heparin, flurane,  Fentanyl, isoflurane


TECHNIQUE:

Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with standard intraoperative montage and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically
satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is abnormal: It is diffusely slow with primarily theta frequency activity.  There
is a glimpse of a slow alpha rhythm, generous beta and shifting asymmetries.  With stimulation, the
patient clearly awakens and there is a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm of 7 Hz.


Induction: 9:10 AM- generate a symmetric, rhythmic slow pattern.  I 10 AM, it is primarily a delta
pattern





COOLING: 9:50 AM - the patient is cooled to 16.3°. This Produces a lower voltage, more slowing
suppressed pattern.  As it does, there are occasional, blunt and sharp waves noted from the left
hemisphere maximum in the left temporal region.  These findings were communicated to the clinical
team.  The EEG gradually transitions to a low voltage slower and more discontinuous pattern.  The
blunted  sharp waves faded away.  The EEG becomes flat at 11:02:27, although there were
intermittent artifacts noted the record from movement of the head box by the anesthesia team.





The patient was placed on bypass at 09:52



REWARMING: 12:13 from nadir of 15.8 the EEG slowly and gradually returns with a burst suppression
pattern noted at 12:35:09.  Periods of suppression were initially long and then on the order of 2-4
seconds.  At 1:10, as the EEG returns, there shifting asymmetries noted in a burst suppression pattern.
As the EEG becomes continuous, just before 2:00, again shifting asymmetries are noted but on the
whole the EEG is continuous and there is no definitive focality.  The EEG is symmetric at the
conclusion of the study at 2:1 6 PM




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Blunted left hemispheric sharp waves or temporal sharp waves were noted with cooling



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Although the baseline EEG was abnormal, and there were sharp waves noted in cooling, the EEG
monitoring during the session of hypothermia successfully demonstrated suppression of the cerebral
activity and then return to a symmetric pattern.


