HISTORY:

22 y.o. male with a history of  2 sequential traumas.  He was stabbed, and in
route to the hospital had a motor vehicle accident.  He was sedated overnight, but, when sedation
was stopped, he had prolonged focal shaking of the right arm without impairment of awareness
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Dilantin



SEDATION: ATIVAN



TECHNIQUE:

Status, bed side Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and VERBAL stimulation.
There is significant ICU artifact noted in the EEG




EEG BACKGROUND:





The begins at 2:28 PM, shortly after the patient receives Ativan and a phenytoin load.  He is initially
drowsy with a generous beta pattern.  With stimulation there is theta activity in both hemispheres.
Left parietal occipital sharp waves of 50 uV or so are noted throughout the EEG with some evolution.
The patient is awake, following commands at this time.



Generalized slowing is present.

Focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



EVENTS:

ONE  clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.

At 2:37, the patient is able to indicate to the technologist that his arm is twitching.  At this time, the
left parietal occipital sharp waves are present, but the pattern at this time is not substantially different
than the period of time in which he is not having clinical involuntary motor activity




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal STAT EEG due to:


1. essentially continuous left occipital/parietal discrete sharp waves.

2. one clinical seizure with the same epileptiform activity

3. generalized slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate an ongoing, epileptogenic process in the left occipital region.  The patient
was examined by the technologist and the neurology house officers.  There is a clinical seizure, but
with the ongoing epileptiform activity in the same region, he should be considered to BE having
subclinical seizures.  EEG monitoring was initiated after this routine study
