HISTORY: a 27 y.o. male with a history of refractory epilepsy- 14 seizures in two days and behavioral issues referred for EEG for medication adjustment. 

MEDICATIONS: risperiDONE (RISPERDAL) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 500 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. Indications: Epilepsy 

TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) monitor was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and seizure and spike detection software. The patient was very poorly cooperative- pulled off IV, EEG, etc. EEG monitoring staff supervised the patient. This record was reviewed by a colleague at the time of the recording, but reported later.   

DAY 1 (06/08/16 -06/09/2016)  

BACKGROUND: The waking background is continuous, diffusely slow, lacking in the normal developmental milestones for an awake adult. Some sections of the record demonstrate generous beta  Posterior dominant rhythm was not present.  The background is reactive, variable.  There were no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.  Sleep was characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.  

PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  

EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  Abundant (>1/10s) lower voltage frontal spikes are noted, particularly in sleep, some R frontal max Other discharges which may represent ictal equivalents include frontal fast activity. In the sharply contoured record, there are also phase reversals in the temporal region  

EVENTS:  Behavior of jerking from side to side: 8:42 PM 10 seconds:  Behavior of calling people inappropriately 9:48 PM  

EKG: A single lead captured HR 100 BPM max  

DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to: 1. Markedly abnormal background 2. Epileptiform activity characteristic of a secondarily generalized epilepsy including frontal sharp waves or frontal notched fast activity or other sharply contoured discharges 3. Multiple behaviors which were not seizures.    

-----------------------------------------------------------------  
DAY2 06:00 - 06/09/2016- 06/10/2016 16:00) Vimpat and VPA

BACKGROUND: No change  

GENERALIZED SLOWING: No change  

FOCAL SLOWING: No change  

PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY no change  None  

SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: no change from above  

EVENTS:  Behaviors 10:08- talking and jerking 15 seconds, no clear EEG change 10:10 talking and jerking 16 seconds, no clear EEG change 10:14- two events, hyperventilating and jerking around in the bed, no Clear EEG change 11:51 AM jerking his head, no EEG change  Intermittent auditory hallucinations and obsessions with guns, not associated with ictal patterns   Seizures 12:27 the patient is talking before the seizure, he is jerking around in the bed and hyperventilating. Then he starts to have trembling of the left arm. The EEG pattern associated with this is repetitive sharp waves and spikes in the right central region. By 12:27:46, this is his involved into a generalized tonic-clonic seizure with head and body turning to the left. Total event duration one minute 30 seconds. Profound postictal slowing was noted 16:06 Seizure 1 min 9 sec Patient in bed, talking, and then starts to have trembling of the left hand - is responsive during the seizure.  Left arm jerking crescendos. Testing is performed when the patient can no longer talk and the patient has started to convulse at 16:07 The ictal pattern for this is repetitive sharp waves or spikes in the right central region which evolved Into focal fast activity and then go on to becoming tonic clonic pattern. Later in the seizure, there is clear fast activity, muscle and in the EEG is obscured by the convulsion. 06/10/2016 6:21 AM seizure out of sleep: Patient is asleep, there are no clinical correlates. Slow spike and wave activity of 20 seconds duration was noted this may represent an interictal discharge for this individual Possible Seizure: 20:57 PM R arm jerking 16 seconds, no clear EEG change-
 
EKG: A single EKG lead captured HR 100 BPM  

DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  In addition to multiple behavioral events, there were clear electrographic seizures. One behavior with hyperventilation may represent a simple partial seizure for this adult because the behavior is similar to that seen in the beginning of some of his seizures. He is clearly able to communicate in the beginning of the seizures and in fact is responsive most intelligibly generalized   

Overall impression/clinical correlation: This is a markedly abnormal background. There were multiple different behaviors which were not epileptiform seizures. The hallucinations were not seizures. There were 2 very clear clinical seizures both out of the right frontocentral region. One of the other events which just involved the hyperventilation may have represented an aura or simple partial seizure without is clear scalp representation. Given the patient's profound behavioral abnormalities, its difficult to be entirely certain.  Based on the ictal patterns described above, medications were stepped up
