HISTORY:

88 y.o. female with a history ofsyncope,  becomes pale, cold and sweaty. Face is
cold as ice. Eyes remain opened and she stares. May have mild tremble. Head drops at the end.
referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


furosemide (LASIX) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth twice a week.

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily. Only takes when bp rises above
130 systolic.


simvastatin (ZOCOR) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth nightly.

potassium chloride (K-DUR) 10 mEq tablet, Take 10 mEq by mouth daily.

predniSONE (DELTASONE) 10 mg tablet, Take 4 tablets by mouth daily. Take 4 pills every morning
for 1 week, then 3 pills every morning


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 325 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth every 4 hours as needed for
Pain for up to 10 days. Take 1-2 tablets


bimatoprost (LUMIGAN) 0.01 % Drops, Place 1 drop into both eyes at bedtime.




gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

clopidogrel (PLAVIX) 75 mg tablet, Take 75 mg by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a lower voltage, diffusely slow but
symmetric mixture of theta, alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 6.5 Hertz
posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is vertex waves were noted, spindles.



Modest, relatively continuous generalized slowing is present.

Occasional, shifting focal slowing is present, not remarkable for age.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: none



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:      Photic Stimulation: Spiky photic driving was noted at slower flash
frequencies, this is present bilaterally but more remarkable on the right



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep EEG for an adult of this age due to:

1.  Generalized background slowing.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are nonspecific and may be correlated with clinical history.  They can be seen in
underlying cognitive disorders and adults of this age, metabolic encephalopathy or ischemic
cerebrovascular disease.  This somewhat unusual photic stimulation may be correlated with the
clinical history but can be seen in normals.  The asymmetry in driving may be correlated with
imaging
