HISTORY:

61 y.o. male with a history of left-sided subdural hematoma and status epilepticus
with surgical drainage, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Keppra, Dilantin, Topamax, Toprol, promethazine, aspirin, Proventil, Ventolin, Lipitor, Xarelto,
Symbicort, Prilosec



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is characterized by the presence of nearly continuous irregular 1.5-5 Hz left
frontal, central and temporal slowing. A small amount of low amplitude poorly sustained 9-10 Hz
rhythmic activity was seen posteriorly, better developed on the right. Low-voltage widespread
anteriorly predominant beta activity was seen which was attenuated over the left hemisphere.
Moderate amounts of muscle, movement, and frontal eye blink artifact were seen.





During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse right
greater than left hemispheric background slowing are seen.



Stage II sleep was characterized by the presence of asymmetric vertex waves phase reversing at C4,
central and temporal sleep spindles which were most prominent on the right, and increased irregular
left greater than right sided slowing.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) sharp transients were seen over the left hemisphere at T5, T3, and F7.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic seizures captured during this study.



HEART RHYTHM:

NSR at 66 bpm with infrequent PVCs and intraventricular conduction defect.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Left hemispheric slowing

2. Attenuation of beta activity over the left hemisphere

3. Occasional sharp transients in the left central and temporal regions



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of a functional disturbance involving the left hemisphere,
maximum over anterior regions, with infrequent central and temporal irritative discharges. In the
setting of a patient with seizure disorder, the above changes would be consistent with localization-
related seizures arising in the left anterior hemisphere.
