HISTORY:

33 y.o. female with a history of head injury

from MVA (Pedestrian hit by car in June, 2010) s/p cranioplasty


with residual effects including aphasia, dysphagia with GJ tube,

right hemiplegia, seizure disorder, tracheostomy, also with

history of hypertension, GERD, anemia, and gallstone pancreatitis


referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS: Keppra



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically challenging study, with




frequent periods of diffuse muscle artifact, movement artifact,

and electrode artifact, and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is continuous and asymmetric.

The right hemisphere has fair organization and consists of alpha

and beta frequencies, with occasional admixed theta, and a

posterior dominant rhythm of 9-10 Hz.


The left hemisphere has poor organization and consists of sharply

contoured delta, posterior quadrant predominant, with admixed


faster frequencies.

There is a left hemispheric breach rhythm.


Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.



There is mild generalized slowing.


There is continuous left hemispheric polymorphic slowing

(posterior quadrant-predominant).




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal, albeit technically limited, awake only


routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization


2. Continuous left hemispheric (posterior quadrant-predominant)

polymorphic slowing and disorganization

3. Left hemispheric breach rhythm



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left hemispheric


(posterior quadrant-predominant) dysfunction superimposed on mild

diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Breach rhythm is consistent with

this patient's known history of craniotomy.


