
History:	58 year old woman with change in mental status.  Reportedly, patient is on 
	peritoneal dialysis and is non-compliant.  Her neurological motor and sensory exam 
	is nonfocal but she demonstrates aphasia.
Medications:	No AEDs listed
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, >60 min, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG 
	electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, obtunded
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  The background consists of a mixture of moderate amplitude 
often sharply contoured theta and delta activity, periods of discontinuity, high amplitude triphasic 
waveforms with both AP and PA lag.  When patient falls asleep, the background voltages decrease,
 waveforms become less sharply contoured, triphasic waveforms disappear, theta becomes more 
prominent and periods of discontinuity increase in frequency and duration.
No clear focal slowing is seen.  Occasional multifocal moderate-to-high amplitude sharp waves are 
captured.  They are generalized, left midtemporal central, bi-occipital.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  At ~ 2:48 PM patient sits up and EEG 
leads become disconnected.  Several minutes prior to that, patient wakes up, tries to sit, moans (she
 has a pausy restrain on).  Her heart rate increases up to ~120 bpm.  After patient sits up and 
disconnects the EEG, she continues to sit, moan, rock side-to-side, repeatedly say "please".
Summary of Findings:
	Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
	Triphasic waves, intermittent
	Sharp waves, occasional multifocal
	Discontinuous background, intermittent
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL nearly 2 hour continuous video EEG due to (1) moderate diffuse slowing; (2)
 lack of organization and discontinuous background, (3) intermittent triphasic waveforms and (3) 
occasional multifocal sharp waves. These findings are indicative of a moderate diffuse 
encephalopathy, which is etiologically nonspecific, but suggestive of a metabolic origin.  Triphasic 
waves are a nonspecific EEG finding that can be seen in hepatic encephalopathy, uremia and 
anoxia.  Multifocal sharp waves could be seen in renal failure.  These findings were conveyed to 
	

