HISTORY:

33 y.o. female with a history of developmental delay and seizures, with
most recent seizure occurring in January, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 250 mg tablet, Take 750 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10-11 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. A moderate amount of low
amplitude 18-30 Hz activity is seen predominantly over the anterior scalp regions. A moderate
amount of superimposed muscle artifact is also noted. Low amplitude frontocentral 3-6 hertz activity
is occasionally noted, likely secondary to early drowsiness.





With brief periods of increased drowsiness, slow eye movement artifact, attenuation and
fragmentatioof posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


Probably normal awake and drowsy routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected. Low voltage frontocentral slowing likely represented mild drowsiness.





A normal routine EEG cannot exclude the diagnosis of epilepsy. If clinically indicated, a sleep
deprived tracing capturing stage II sleep or ambulatory EEG may provide additional helpful
information.
