HISTORY:

50 y.o. female with a history of aneurysms.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


amLODIPine (NORVASC) 5 mg tablet,

ASHLYNA 0.15 mg-30 mcg (84)/10 mcg (7) Tablet, Dose Pack, 3

Months,


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 250 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

every morning.

montelukast (SINGULAIR) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.


multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

daily. Over the counter

diphenhydrAMINE (BENADRYL) 25 mg capsule, Take 25 mg by mouth


every 6 hours as needed.





No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11-11.5

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Continuous polymorphic sharply contoured theta and delta activity

is captured over the left anterior temporal region.  Additional

underriding fast activity is seen over the left anterior temporal


region.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional

abnormalities.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

Focal slowing - continuous - mild-to-moderate - left - anterior


temporal

Breach rhythm - left - anterior temporal

No epileptiform discharges

Sleep stage II





CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep 27 minute EEG due to

continuous mild-to-moderate left anterior temporal focal slowing.




Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural

lesion in this region.


Breach effect is secondary to the skull defect.

The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not


rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.
