DATE OF STUDY: 06/28/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT:


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy





HISTORY:

 a 62 y.o. male with a history of PMH EtOH abuse and seizures admitted for fall with
intracranial hemorrhage, noted to have a seizure overnight with reported R gaze deviation and arms
stiffened referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS: Ativan, Depakote



SEDATION: as above


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:








The background is reactive and consists of alpha, beta, and theta, organized in an anterior-posterior
gradient that is present but suboptimal. There are fragments of a posterior dominant rhythm of 9-10
Hz that are better seen on the right. There is very frequent left parasagittal polymorphic slowing and
very frequent left temporal attenuation of faster frequencies.




Drowsiness is characterized by attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm with
further background slowing and occasional 1-2 seconds of diffuse attenuation.



Well-formed sleep transients are not captured.



There is mild generalized slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Very frequent left parasagittal polymorphic slowing


3. Very frequent left temporal attenuation of faster frequencies


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of left parasagittal cerebral dysfunction and left temporal
cortical dysfunction, superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.







Attending Epileptologist: 


I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.














































































