HISTORY:

21 y.o. female with a history of seizures since infancy, anxiety and bipolar
disease.  Poorly controlled seizures referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


Seizure semiology:

1. ? Arm twitch. Black out. Generalized shaking. No tongue biting. Urinary incontinence. Myalgia
afterwards. Last such a seizure: 2009


2. Generalized shaking. 5-10 min of shaking. Urinary incontinence. Myalgia. Last such a seizure: ~2
days ago. Current frequency: every 2-3 night.


3. ? Myoclonic jerks

MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


LEUPROLIDE ACETATE (LUPRON DEPOT IM), Inject  into the muscle.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

acetaminophen-codeine (TYLENOL #3) 300-30 mg per tablet,


fluticasone (FLOVENT HFA) 220 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 1 puff into the lungs every 12 hours.

ALBUTEROL IN, Inhale  into the lungs.

quetiapine (SEROQUEL) 25 mg tablet, Take 75 mg by mouth 2 times daily.


Current Facility-Administered Medications:


medroxyPROGESTERone (DEPO-PROVERA) injection 150 mg




TECHNIQUE:


A 1 hour  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG , HV and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz  70 uV posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.
Posterior slow waves of youth are identified.  In addition, clear, posteriorly predominant delta was
also seen in wakefulness and transition into early drowsiness





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.  Stage II sleep is remarkably
brief


Generalized slowing is present.


Infrequent for intermittent occipital slowing, present bilaterally is noted in wakefulness and drowsiness
slowing



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

In this very sharply contoured background, there are 3 occipitally predominant spike and slow wave
complexes noted as the patient becomes drowsy.  2 of these have a subtle left occipital maximum.
One is clearly present bilaterally




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation:  an increase in amplitude of the background



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.





EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. bilateral, intermittent occipital slowing

2. rare occipital spike and slow-wave complex, perhaps maximum on the left



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings may be correlated with clinical history and imaging.  This EEG supports an
underlying epileptiform process.
