HISTORY:

61 y.o. female with a history of medically refractory epilepsy, deafness,
thought to be seizure free for 1 month,  referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

phenobarbital (LUMINAL) 16.2 mg tablet, Take 3 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.

divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 500 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days.


levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.

multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation. The patient is deaf, but the tech
noted that she seems to moan in association with left temporal discharges.  Initially, there was a lot
of muscle artifact.







EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
Theta, alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 6.5-8.3 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present. Mu of
6.5 Hz was seen at C3, no testing could be performed.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is fragmented. POSTS were noted.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Intermittent left temporal  focal slowing is present. Characterized by disruption of faster frequency
activity and mixed irregular theta/ delta



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) T1/T3> T5 in wakefulness, often occurring in bursts

As the patient transitions to sleep, the EEG pauses briefly, but there is right temporal focal slowing
and then sharp waves at 09:53 AM (T2/T4 )


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Photic Stimulation: in addition to a driving response, 9 Hz stimuli may have augmented 11 sec L
T1 burst of sharp waves (BIRD)



EVENTS:

There are  electrographic events captured during this study.


These include burst of T1 sharps/spikes in trains, pairs, triplets. The tech at the bedside felt that the
patient vocalized during the discharges, but this is not appreciated during video review.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Prominent left temporal sharps. Spikes, trains of sharps with brief frequency evolution


2. Left temporal focal slowing - wake




3. R temporal focal slow/spikes in drowsiness



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings  indicate the presence of a highly epileptiform pattern raising concerns that this
patient is having frequent seizures which have not been defined. The patient will be admitted
urgently to the EMU.
