HISTORY:

33 y.o. male with a history of tics referred for routine EEG for evaluation of
paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 500 mg EC tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 3 times daily.

divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 250 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 250 mg by mouth daily.

OLANZAPINE (ZYPREXA PO), Take 30 mg by mouth 2 times daily.


clonazepam (KLONOPIN) 0.5 mg tablet, Take 0.5 mg by mouth daily.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




Patient remains awake throughout the study.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


Frequent typical are captured during the study.  They all are associated with facial twitching of
variable intensity.  During some of the episode left arm flexion posture is seen.  Episode duration: 1-
17 seconds.  They are all associated with diffuse EMG artifact of variable amplitude and severity.
Milder episodes that are captured early in the recording.  They are only associated with EMG and
movement artifact.  During more severe episodes, EEG is not interpretable.




HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake only  routine EEG.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake only  routine EEG.

Many typical episodes of variable severity and duration are captured.  None are associated with an
abnormal ictal correlate, but EEG during majority of these episodes is not interpretable due to EMG
artifact.  Simple partial seizures cannot be ruled out.  Of note, ~75% of simple partial seizures are
not captured on a scalp EEG.



A repeat study with sleep, possibly an ambulatory EEG or an admission to the epilepsy monitoring
unit may be of benefit in this patient to help to elucidate the nature of these episodes.
