HISTORY:

30 y.o. male with a history of relatively newly recognized epilepsy.  He presented
to an outside hospital having had any seizure characterized by stiffening and a fall.  Although he
was initially reluctant to describe his seizures, he stated that he has been having spells for some time,
perhaps 7-10 months with a feeling of unwell.  At the outside hospital, he had multiple events, not
always with aura, characterized by oral and manual automatisms followed by confusion and agitation
referred for routine EEG for management of seizure exacerbation.





MEDICATIONS:

Current :


Dilantin and Ativan

lacosamide (VIMPAT) 200 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours.  Started at this time



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG HV and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse beta are seen.




Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.


Prominent focal slowing is present.  Ongoing rhythmic slowing is noted from the right anterior
temporal region with disruption of faster frequency activity in that region..



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent to nearly continuous right anterior temporal sharp waves are noted of variable amplitude to
feel utmost maximum at T2 or F8


TIRDA is presnet

OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Accentuates right temporal focal slowing


Photic Stimulation: driving elicited, R>L



EVENTS:

There areno clinical or events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of  50-60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. nearly continuous focal slowing from the right anterior temporal region, at times rhythmic.




2. frequent right anterior temporal sharp waves and spikes some of which build up

CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of a highly epileptogenic process in the right temporal region.
This is congruent with the clinical history and the MRI demonstrated an abnormality in the right
amygdala.  The patient was monitored closely during this record.  She reported no clinical symptoms
despite the prominent epileptiform activity which sometimes does demonstrate build up
