HISTORY: 57 y.o. female with a history of infectious illness, renal failure, and a fluctuating mental status referred for EEG for assessment of mental status change.  MEDICATIONS: meropenem, insulin, plaquenil, protonix, albumin, othres  SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (6/15/2016, 11:26 - 6/16/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND: The waking background is continuous, symmetric, fairly organized, and consists predominantly of alpha with admixed beta, and underlying excess delta activity. Posterior dominant rhythm was present at 7-8 Hz. The background is reactive and variable.  Mild-moderate generalized slowing is present. Interpretation of the background, particularly the temporal chains, is obscured by diffuse muscle artifact for periods <10 min.  Beginning about ~16:25, the background, particularly the temporal chains, becomes increasingly obscured by diffuse high amplitude muscle artifact for periods ~10 min in duration, rendering interpretation impossible over these areas. During brief periods of resolution of this artifact, the patient's background is seen.  There were no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.  Drowsiness is characterized by attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and further background slowing.  During brief periods of non-sustained sleep, rudimentary sleep spindles are seen.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  None  EVENTS:  Primary team notes 2 episodes of "shaking all over and not responding." 6/15/2016 at 19:14 and 19:39 CLINICAL: Episodes have subtle, if any, obvious clinical correlate on video review. There is no convulsion.  There is subtle nonrhythmic head flexion-extension. For 19:14 event, team is seen on camera present in room asking patient, "are you ok?" At first patient does not seem to respond. Then nurse enters and asks her to move her left arm, which she apparently does to his satisfaction (not visible on video); she seems to nod that she is ok when asked. For 19:39 event, intermittent eye fluttering is seen. EEG: Background, especially bitemporal chains, is obscured by diffuse high amplitude muscle artifact. During seconds of relative resolution of this artifact, a drowsy background is present. Note that the high amplitude muscle artifact is present for the 19:14 event during the time that the patient follows commands and responds appropriately.  6/16/2016 at 01:33 - another episode of "shaking and decreased responsiveness" CLINICAL: Team is at bedside preparing to perform a procedure. At 01:33 patient begins to have nonrhythmic twitches of neck and trunk, then right thumb (left thumb is not visible on camera). Team notices this and calls her name - she does not respond. Her eyes are open and rolled back. Duration ~2 min 40 sec. EEG: Background, especially bitemporal chains, is obscured by diffuse high amplitude muscle artifact. During seconds of relative resolution of this artifact, background indicative of early drowsiness. Single EKG strip recording sub-optimally at this time.   EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s.  DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal long-term video EEG due to: 1. Mild to moderate diffuse slowing and suboptimal organization 2. Episodes described above that are not definitely seizure activity either by clinical appearance or on video.  Electrographic interpretation is limited due to diffuse muscle artifact, but no clear epileptiform features during brief periods of relaxation.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  The episodes described above are of unclear etiology.       -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 2 (6/16/2016, 06:00 - 6/17/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND: By 6/16/2016 ~18:00 the background becomes slower and more attenuated, consisting of mostly delta and beta with admixed theta. Sleep transients are not seen.  By 06/17/2016 05:30 the background appears to be more of an awake pattern, with increasing posterior alpha.  Large portions of the record remain obscured by diffuse, bi-temporal predominant, muscle artifact.  GENERALIZED SLOWING: Worsens to moderate generalized slowing, then improves to mild to moderate generalized slowing  FOCAL SLOWING: No change  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): Large portions of the day are limited in interpretation due to large amplitude muscle artifact, particularly over bitemporal chains.  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single EKG lead captured a heart rate in the 50s-90s   DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  Degree of background slowing worsens, then improves over the course of day 2. By end of day 2 background appears similar to day 1. Limited in interpretation by muscle artifact.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of diffuse cerebral dysfunction that worsens to "moderate" over the course of the day but then improves to "mild-moderate."      -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 3 (6/17/2016, 06:00 - 6/17/2016, 08:10)  BACKGROUND: No change from end of day 2  GENERALIZED SLOWING: mild to moderate   FOCAL SLOWING: No change  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): Large portions of the day are limited in interpretation due to large amplitude muscle artifact, particularly over bitemporal chains.  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single EKG lead was uninterpretable due to artifact   DAY 3 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  Mild to moderate generalized slowing. Limited in interpretation by muscle artifact.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.    -----------------------------------------------------------------  FINAL IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal, limited, long term video EEG due to:  1. Mild to moderate diffuse slowing and suboptimal organization, which worsens to "moderate" generalized slowing by day 2 but improves by day 3 to "mild to moderate" 2. Episodes described above noted on day 1 that are not definitely seizure activity either by clinical appearance or on video.  Electrographic interpretation is limited due to diffuse muscle artifact, but no clear epileptiform features during brief periods of relaxation.     FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, worsening in degree of severity on day 2 but improving by day 3 to "mild to moderate".  The episodes described above are of unclear etiology.   
