HISTORY:

47 y.o. female with a history of numbness of

the right arm and blood pressure out of control referred for


routine EEG for characterization of seizures and visual

difficulty.

CT demonstrated 1. Chronic left PCA occipital infarct. Can not


exclude superimposed

acute PCA infarct. No mass effect. No hemorrhage.  2. Age

indeterminate lacunar infarct at left globus pallidus.



MEDICATIONS:

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.


current facility-administered medications KEPPRA, PLAVIX,

LOVENOX, NIFEDIPINE



SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:


This is a very drowsy adult.  The waking background is symmetric,

reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate


amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal

anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by

a symmetric and reactive 8.7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm

(PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  There is


scant beta and excess beta noted in wakefulness



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Was not possible



Photic Stimulation: The patient was drifting into stage II


sleep.  No driving was noted



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal routine EEG.  There are no clinical or

electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal  routine EEG for an adult of this age.  Of note,

the patient appears to be excessively drowsy.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.
