HISTORY:


67 y.o. female with a history of depression, worsening cognitive impairment,
and flexion abdominal movements referred for EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events and
screening for subclinical seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits:


multivitamin (THERA) tablet 1 tablet

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg


enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg

LORazepam (ATIVAN) tablet 0.5 mg

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 40 mg




clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) tablet 1.5 mg

QUEtiapine (SEROQUEL) tablet 25 mg


vitamin E capsule 1,200 Units




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with
T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and
included a single channel of EKG.





DAY 1 (11/11/2016, 22:36 - 11/12/2016, 09:50)


BACKGROUND:


The waking background is continuous, symmetric, fairly-organized, and consists predominantly of
alpha and beta with admixed excess delta.



Posterior dominant rhythm was present at 8.5-9 Hz



The background is reactive and variable.


There are no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured..



There is mild generalized slowing.



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Rare bitemporal independent sharp waves noted in drowsiness. These have appearance most
consistent with benign variant (wicket waves)






EVENTS:

Intermittent abdominal twitching noted in wakefulness. Not noted in sleep.


Example occurs 11/11 22:39

Clinical: Irregular abdominal contractions


EEG: Diffuse muscle artifact for <1 sec, no other change in background


EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s






FINAL IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization


2. Intermittent abdominal twitching noted in wakefulness, without ictal cerebral EEG correlate,
resolving in sleep




FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.

Intermittent abdominal twitching noted in wakefulness resolved in sleep and did not correlate with
any change in cerebral background activity, only muscle artifact. These movements do not represent
seizure activity.



Rare bitemporal sharp waves noted above are most consistent with a benign variant (wicket waves).
