HISTORY: 66 y.o. female with a history of S/P COIL LEFT OPTHALMIC ANEURYSM, ADM ICH WITH IVH FOUND ANEURYSM.  EVD RIGHT FRONTAL.   MEDICATIONS: OXCARBAZEPINE 150 MG   SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.  EEG BACKGROUND:  The waking background is asymmetric with prominent arrhythmic delta activity from the left hemisphere.  The right hemisphere reveals a nice A-P gradient with well prominent frontal beta and a posterior 9 Hz alpha rhythm.    During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.   Sleep is not captured  Continuous focal slowing is seen in the left hemisphere maximal in the anterior temporal region with associated loss of faster frequencies.  Intermittent focal slowing is seen in the right anterior temporal region.  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) sharp waves, relatively high amplitude with variable phase reversal at F7/T3, at times with a large frontal field and at times more posterior.  Some of the discharges are periodic for seconds.   ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:  Hyperventilation is not performed. Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.   EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  HEART RATE: A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  IMPRESSION: Abnormal due to: 1. Continuous arrhythmic delta activity from the left hemisphere with associated loss of faster frequencies.   2. Sharp waves from the left anterior temporal region with a large field 3. Intermittent focal slowing on the right anterior temporal region.  CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal EEG awake and drowsy due to frequent epileptiform activity and focal slowing in the left hemisphere.  This is indicative of an irritable structural cortical lesion in this region which is potentially epileptogenic. In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction on the right anterior temporal region, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology. No seizures were seen.   
