HISTORY:

59 y.o. female admitted 12/14/15 after

collapsing and being found unresponsive, then having a reported


GTC s/p Ativan.  Yesterday she was intubated for worsened mental

status in the setting of hypoxia. She is now referred for routine

EEG for assessment of mental status change.



MEDICATIONS: PROTONIX, RIFAXIMIN, THERAGRAN, VANCOMYCIN, ZOSYN,

ALBUMIN



SEDATION: None listed



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and




included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The background is continuous, reactive, and symmetric but


consists of disorganized delta with admixed theta. Occasionally

background frequencies consist mostly of theta with admixed

delta. There is no posterior dominant rhythm.



There is moderate to severe generalized slowing.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Abundant (>1/min to <1/10s) diffuse sharply contoured delta waves

with triphasic morphology, shifting between right and left


hemispheres, with posterior predominance (O1, O2 max).

Occasionally sharp waves seen over the same regions.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal asleep only routine EEG due to:


1. Moderate to severe generalized slowing and background

disorganization


2. Abundant (>1/min to <1/10s) diffuse sharply contoured delta

waves with triphasic morphology, shifting between right and left


hemispheres, with posterior predominance (O1, O2 max).

Occasionally sharp waves seen over the same regions.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of diffuse epileptogenic

potentials with posterior predominance superimposed on moderate

to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction. The morphology of the

epileptogenic potentials is most commonly associated with


toxic-metabolic disturbances, though hyperexcitability cannot be

ruled out. Clinical correlation is advised.


There were no electrographic seizures captured during this study.
