HISTORY:

82 y.o. male with a history of craniectomy 30 years ago, epilepsy, brain tumor,
DM, HTN, GERD, CVA, Aphasia / Dysphagia referred for routine EEG for possible seizures; admitted
with sepsis and rapid afib on 6/28.




MEDICATIONS: Heparin, Insulin, Metoprolol, Diltiazam, Keppra



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


Most of the background consists of drowsiness and sleep.




During these times the background consists of disorganized theta and delta. There are brief runs of
beta activity seen intermittently throughout the bilateral parasagittal leads, without clear evolution,
of unclear significance. They do not appear to represent spindle activity.


There are no well-formed sleep transients.



During brief periods of wakefulness, the background consists of suboptimally organized fragments of a
posterior dominant rhythm of 5-6 Hz.



There is occasional right hemispheric polymorphic slowing.


Moderate generalized slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


See above description under background.


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

An irregular heart rate is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Occasional right hemispheric polymorphic slowing

3. An irregular heart rate captured on a single EKG lead



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of right hemispheric dysfunction, structural or physiologic in
etiology, superimposed on a moderate diffuse dysfunction.

An irregular heart rate is captured on a single EKG lead.
