HISTORY:

47 y.o. female with a pmh of celiac disease, seizures, depression, anxiety, and
GERD.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

ranitidine (ZANTAC) 150 mg tablet,

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 200 mg by mouth daily.


hydrocortisone 2.5 % cream, Apply  topically 2 times daily.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:



A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




Diffuse, frontally predominant 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.


Easily goes into drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the
posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Generalized frontal maximal spike and polyspike and wave at 4Hz, with symmetric bursts for less than
2 seconds and no clinical correlate.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



1. Symmetric generalized fast spike and polyspike and wave.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to symmetric generalized fast spike and
polyspike and wave, which along with the normal background is consistent with the diagnosis of
idiopathic generalized epilepsy.




Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.
