HISTORY:

This is a 63 y.o. female admitted for continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG) monitoring
with a history of: paroxysmal events of unclear etiology.




Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Evaluation of paroxysmal events.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;






- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient’s exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case.  Impedances were measured and verified to be
below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to
computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest
and reviewed in detail.





Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.






The  spike and seizure detection computer program was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.
Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as
selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS: Keppra 1000 mg q12h



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits:


sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg

fluticasone-salmeterol (ADVAIR) 100-50 mcg/dose diskus inhaler 1 puff


[START ON 11/15/2016] losartan (COZAAR) tablet 100 mg

[START ON 11/15/2016] sertraline (ZOLOFT) tablet 25 mg

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 40 mg


hydroCHLOROthiazide (MICROZIDE) capsule 12.5 mg

metFORMIN (GLUCOPHAGE) tablet 500 mg

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 500 mg



potassium chloride IVPB 20 mEq 100 mL




SEDATION: None



DAY 1 (11/14/2016, 12:31 - 11/15/2016, 06:00)


MEDICATIONS: Keppra reduced to 500 mg at bedtime



BACKGROUND:



The waking background is continuous, symmetric, well-organized, and consists predominantly of
alpha with admixed bifrontal beta.



Posterior dominant rhythm was present at 9 Hz.



The background is reactive and variable.


There were no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.



Sleep was characterized by symmetric POSTS, vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes.



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None present



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:


11/14/2016 at 19:29 (duration ~80 sec)


Clinical: Son notices patient is staring, not responsive. Patient points to her head with right hand.
Son pushes button. Patient continues staring straight ahead, not attending to son, then points
towards nurse who enters 19:30. She tells nurse she feels fine. She has low amplitude non-rhythmic
flexion-extension movements of right wrist, tapping it against right hip. Son says, "I think she had a
small one."

EEG: Normal awake background with superimposed muscle artifact


EKG: No change




DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep video EEG.

No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.







-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 2 (11/15/2016, 06:00 - 11/16/2016, 06:00)


AEDs: Keppra HELD



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: no change



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Rare sharp waves are seen over the left temporal region (T3 max) occurring both in isolation and
in runs, with an appearance most consistent with a benign variant (wicket waves)



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.

Note that patient sleep deprives herself until 11/16/2016 05:00



SEIZURES/EVENTS:

11/15/2016 at 12:41 (duration ~5 min)


Clinical: patient lifts her right arm, then her left arm, up and down in alternating fashion, staring
straight ahead.  Son is at bedside, notices, and pushes the event button. Patient rubs fingers
together, opening and closing hands. Nurse enters at 12:43, calling patient's name; pt does not
respond and stares straight ahead, with continued hand movements. At 12:43 patient attends nurse
and waves "hello." She answers questions slowly, but correctly and follows commands and
remembers the code word. She intermittently attends to the nurse. Patient states she thinks she may
have had an event but cannot remember. Admits to having slight headache.




EEG: Normal awake background with superimposed muscle artifact.

EKG: No change





EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 60s-70s






-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 3 (11/16/2016, 06:00 - 11/17/2016, 06:00)



AEDs: Keppra HELD; Topamax 25 qhs



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: no change


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Rare sharp waves are seen over the left temporal region (T3 max) occurring both in isolation and
in runs, with an appearance most consistent with a benign variant (wicket waves)




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.

Note that patient sleep deprives herself until 11/17/2016 04:30



SEIZURES/EVENTS:

11/16/2016 at 12:18 (duration ~10 min)

Clinical: as nurse is checking pulse oximetry on right hand, patient begins moving right fingers
intermittently. This becomes semi-rhythmic, waxing-waning finger, then hand tapping on the bed
over the course of several minutes. Tech enters room 12:23 and pushes button. He notes she is
blinking. He uncovers her and her hand stops tapping. She flexes both arms at elbow, not tracking
tech. He notes her eyes are rolled up and that both arms, legs are shaking - at this point, there is
slight tremulous movement of right hand on video. Patient makes nonspecific flexing movements of
arms and continues to intermittently tap right > left fingers against her thighs. She is able to name
pen, and with coaxing, follows commands. She gestures to her head and points to back, endorsing a
headache in the back of her head. She continues to tap her right > left hand, but seems to be able to
stop it.





EEG: Normal awake background with superimposed muscle artifact.

EKG: No change



11/16/2016 at 23:42 (duration ~90 sec)

Clinical: laying in bed, taping right, then left hands in alternating, waxing-waning fashion. Nurse
presses event button. Movement stops. Flexes hips briefly, then relaxes. Then flexes/extends feet.
Then lifts both arms up and quickly relaxes them back on bed. Patient is not tested during this.



EEG: normal awake background

EKG: no change



EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 60s-70s





-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 4 (11/17/2016, 06:00 - 11/17/2016, 11:01)



AEDs: Topamax 25 qhs


INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: no change



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 60s-70s









-----------------------------------------------------------------



SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:



INTERICTAL FINDINGS:  The patient’s interictal findings demonstrated a normal EEG with 9 Hz
posterior dominant rhythm, without any focal findings or epileptiform discharges.


Rare sharp waves were seen over the left temporal region (T3 max) occurring both in isolation and in
runs, with an appearance most consistent with a benign variant (wicket waves).



ICTAL FINDINGS:


The patient had 4 typical habitual episodes consisting of decreased responsiveness with nonrhythmic
right > left wrist movements during this admission; all were accompanied by a normal awake
background with superimposed muscle artifact.



SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:


1. Nonepileptic behavioral events


EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:


1. Nonepileptic behavioral events


CONCLUSION:


The patient was admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 4 days with continuous video
EEG.  This was an elective EMU monitoring session for characterization/differential diagnosis of
events.


The interictal EEG is characterized by a normal background with a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.


The patient was weaned off Keppra over the course of his admission and had 4 typical habitual
events without any EEG correlate. She was started on a low dose of Topamax on day 3 to address
migraine headaches.  Additionally, her hydrochlorothiazide was stopped due to normotension and
hypokalemia.



We recommend that he/she to see a psychiatrist or therapist for assessment of underlying
psychopathology and diagnosis.
