HISTORY:

23 y.o. male with a history of intellectual disability and seizures referred for routine
EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: Keppra, Depakote



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists mostly of low voltage fast frequencies.
Rarely, fragments of a symmetric and reactive 10 Hz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. The normal anterior-posterior gradient is maintained.






Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


Rare, very brief episodes of teeth clenching and truncal movements are noted. Two examples occur
at 10:33 and 10:34.

The only EEG correlate is chew and muscle artifact, which lasts <5 seconds and correlates with the
above movements.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake only  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or
detected.


The movements described above have no associated change in EEG cerebral activity and appear
most consistent with behavioral activity.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake only  routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.


The episodes described above are unlikely to represent seizures.
