HISTORY:

52 y.o. male with a history of memory loss following referred for routine EEG for
assessment of mental status change. R lumbar radiculopathy.




MEDICATIONS:

aspirin (BAYER) 325 mg Tablet tablet, Take 325 mg by mouth daily.


BP medicines, others, not identified

SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.  Patient seems to be
excessively drowsy



EEG BACKGROUND:

In maximal wakefulness  waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha
and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior
gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  There are multiple epochs with early
drowsiness with slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm to approximately 7 Hz.  Additional features
of drowsiness including shifting slowing, more notably within bit more focal slowing on the left.
Additionally, very early in drowsiness, bursts of rhythmic frontal high amplitude delta 3-4 seconds
duration were noted






Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with POSTS synchronous and symmetric vertex
waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present. Shifting  focal slowing is present. L>R


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


Sharply contoured delta is noted in the left mid temporal region in drowsiness on rare occasions


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:      Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes
per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of  60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG for an adult of this age, who also appears to be
excessively drowsy


1. FIRDA

2. Shifting slowing R<L with sharply contoured slowing left temporal

CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This routine EEG can be correlated with imaging and clinical features.  Given the complaint of
memory loss, the research from metabolic cause, as well as a disorder of hypersomnolence may be
appropriate correlation with imaging, in regard to the shifting slowing may also be of value.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
