HISTORY:

63 y.o. male with a history of L MCA infarct presenting with right hand weakness and
speech deficit referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS: none listed



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically suboptimal record
due to periods of muscle artifact affecting the bitemporal chains, limiting interpretation over these
regions. The study included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9-10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but
suboptimal.



Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


Frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing is present, seen during periods of less artifact.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm, at times irregular, is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal, technically-limited, awake only routine EEG due to:

1. Suboptimal organization


2. Frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing

3. A heart rate of 66 bpm, at times irregular, on a single EKG lead



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left temporal cerebral dysfunction, either structural or
physiologic in etiology, superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


A heart rate of 66 bpm, at times irregular, is seen on a single EKG lead
