HISTORY:

37 y.o. male with a history of episodes

characterized by shortness of breath and palpitations, referred


for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

acetaminophen-codeine (TYLENOL #3) 300-30 mg per tablet,

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 600 mg tablet,


divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 500 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily.

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 3 capsules by mouth


at bedtime.



SEDATION: None






TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.


Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric


background slowing.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces minimal symmetric photic


driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

CLINICAL: While resting in the chair, at 14:50, the patient makes


gargling sounds and stiffens his trunk. He is noted at 14:51 to

be not responding to the technician. At 14:52, he appears to be


breathing irregularly (there is no sound on video review). He

still does not respond to the technician. His arms are flaccid


but when raised above the level of his head, they fall, avoiding

his face.  He appears to be breathing heavily and has

intermittent truncal jerks.  He remains unresponsive, coughing

intermittently.  At 14:53 he again has intermittent truncal


irregular jerks.  A neurology resident arrives to examine him,

blocking camera view, but by report the patient continues


unresponsive. This reader arrives to examine him: he is

unresponsive, with eyes partway open, and intermittent irregular

tremulous movements of the right wrist that can be suppressed by

touch.  He is drooling and makes intermittent guttoral noises. At


one point he stiffens his trunk again and this movement cannot be

overcome.  During oculocephalic exam, the patient's eye movements


overcome oculocephalic responses.  He remains slumped in the

chair, not responding to pinch. By 15:12 he begins blinking his

eyes more frequently. By 15:18 he appears to be waking up.  A

tear runs down his cheek.  A minute later he remarks that his


chest feels tight, he has palpitations, and feels short of

breath.  A rapid response is called, but patient then insists


that chest pain/shortness of breath/palpitations have resolved

and then refuses to be transferred to the emergency room.  He

states that the above episode is characteristic of his typical

habitual clinical event an he wishes to go home.  He understands


the risks of avoiding further evaluation of chest pain.

EEG: No significant change in cerebral rhythms are seen - there


is a normal awake background throughout. There is intermittent

movement artifact.

EKG: There is no significant change in heart rate for much of the

event. At 15:19, when pt complains of palpitations, heart rate is


90 bpm.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION / CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake only routine EEG.

The prolonged episode captured, described above, is reportedly


the patient's typical habitual clinical event and had no EEG

correlate. Semiologically and electrographically, it is

consistent with a nonepileptic behavioral event.

These findings were communicated and reviewed with the referring


physician and discussed with the patient, who refused further

evaluation for chest pain/palpitations/shortness of breath.
