HISTORY:

49 y.o. female with a history of generalized tonic-clonic seizures since 1993 which can
occur awake or sleep.  Seizure characteristics not clear given language barrier.  Today, referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


phenobarbital (LUMINAL) 32.4 mg tablet, Take 32.4 mg by mouth 2 times daily.   A Digital Video 21
channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2
electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record and included a
single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.  The patient seems very anxious.  There is also a fair
amount of chewing artifact.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  There is
prominent, diffuse 16 Hz beta





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


In drowsiness, rare bursts of right temporal  focal slowing are present

Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


Rhythmic mid-temporal theta of drowsiness noted over the right> left temporal regions.


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Photic Stimulation: Despite the generous beta, a driving response at faster flash frequencies can
be identified



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Excess beta


2. Rare focal slowing in the right temporal region in drowsiness


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This one hour EEG did not capture sustained sleep.  The patient seems to be quite anxious.  To
more completely characterize her epilepsy, a follow-up more prolonged study, perhaps providing a
blanket so that she can drift off to sleep might be of value.  The Betadine above may be associated
with this patient's medications.-
