HISTORY:

46 y.o. female with a history of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


leflunomide (ARAVA) 20 mg tablet, TAKE 1 TABLET BY MOUTH EVERY DAY

multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

norethindrone-ethinyl estradiol (FEMHRT 1/5) 1-5 mg-mcg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:




A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



Frequent polymorphic theta and delta activity and rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA) are noted over the
left anterior temporal region.  Occasional TIRDA is noted over the right anterior temporal region.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and
accentuates focal slowing in the left anterior temporal region



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:




This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Frequent mild-to-moderate focal left anterior temporal slowing


2. Left TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity)

3. Occasional right TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity)




CLINICAL CORRELATION:



Focal slowing that is also rhythmic is suggestive of a focal potentially epileptogenic structural lesion
over the left anterior region as well right anterior temporal region.



Even though no clear epileptiform discharges are present, TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic
delta activity) is equivalent to the epileptiform discharges and signifies a potentially epileptogenic
focus.
