HISTORY:

29 y.o. female with a history of syncope

since age 16, frequent LOC and anxiety referred for routine EEG


for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

citalopram (CELEXA) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.

hydrOXYzine (ATARAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth nightly as


needed for Itching.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:




A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11.5


Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.




Sleep: was not sustained.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: elicited normal frontally predominant

slowing and then a panic attack with crying which the patient had


difficulty controlling. No seizures



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces vigorous, symmetric photic


driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There was one clinical  Eventcaptured during this study. This was


a crying spell without EEG change.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no r

electrographic events reported or detected.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG. A normal routine

EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.

