HISTORY:

28 y.o. male with a history of childhood

glioblastoma multiforma s/p L craniotomy, adult onset epilepsy,


past history of very severe seizures, referred for routine EEG

for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

lacosamide (VIMPAT) 100 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every


12 hours.

divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 250 mg EC tablet, 2 in AM;  2 in PM

PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth


nightly.


SEDATION: None






TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous and reactive but asymmetric,


with a 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) seen better over

the right hemisphere.


The right hemisphere consists of a well organized mixture of

alpha and beta frequencies.

The left hemisphere consists of a fairly organized mixture of

alpha and beta frequencies, with continuous delta-theta slowing


maximal over the mid temporal region and sharply contoured beta,

alpha, and theta continuously seen maximally over the


parasagittal chain.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.

There is continuous left hemisphere (temporal max) polymorphic


slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Continuous left hemisphere (temporal max) polymorphic slowing

and suboptimal organization


2. Left hemisphere (parasagittal max) breach rhythm


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left hemisphere (temporal


max) cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology.

The breach rhythm is consistent with this patient's known history


of craniotomy.
