HISTORY:

66 y.o. male with a history of suspected temporal epilepsy referred for routine
EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events (aura of dizzy spells).



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. Patient re-
starting meds


Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.


aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.

meloxicam (MOBIC) 15 mg tablet, TAKE 1 TABLET BY MOUTH DAILY



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:




A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

1. Occasional sharply contoured theta is seen in drowsiness over the left temporal region, consistent
with a benign variant (rhythmic mid temporal delta activity)




ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding. Patient complains of dizziness during photic
stimulation. No EEG correlate is seen.




EVENTS:

See above under



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.


The patient complained of dizziness during photic stimulation; no ictal cerebral correlate was seen
on EEG.

Sharply contoured theta waves in drowsiness over the left temporal region are most consistent with a
benign variant (rhythmic mid temporal delta).

