HISTORY:

55 y.o. male with a history of a single

black out episode that occurred several years ago.



MEDICATIONS:

No AEDs




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and


photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5-10

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.



Patient remains awake throughout the study.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent brief  (up to 6 sec) bursts of non-evolving generalized

frontally predominant generalized spike and wave discharges


occuring at a repetition rate of 1-2 Hz (primarily 2 Hz) are

captured.  Patient is not tested during these episodes.  The EEG

technologist asks the patient to count on several occasions, but

counting does not start till the burst is nearly or completely


over.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional

abnormalities.





HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


Spike and wave - frequent - generalized at 1-2 Hz, occuring in

brief (<=6 sec) bursts


No sleep stage II


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake-only 32-minute EEG due to frequent


generalized 1-2 Hz spike and wave discharges that occur in brief

(up to 6 sec) bursts without clear clinical correlate (albeit,


the patient is not continuously tested during these events).

This EEG pattern is suggestive of idiopathic generalized epilepsy

vs rapid secondary bisynchrony - please correlate clinically.  A

repeat study with continuous testing may be of benefit.



Patient's PCP was notified of the results at the time of the


recording by a colleague.
