HISTORY:

65 y.o. male with a history of left-sided weakness after a stroke in 1987, several
subsequent TIAs, referred for routine EEG for left facial droop since June 4 with question of seizure
versus TIA.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


aspirin 81 mg, levothyroxine (SYNTHROID), clopidogrel (PLAVIX), esomeprazole (NEXIUM),
amLODIPine (NORVASC), metoprolol tartrate (LOPRESSOR), divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 250 mg EC
tablet, Take 250 mg by mouth 2 times daily, docusate sodium (COLACE)


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 15-25 uV 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR),
which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. A moderate amount of mouth movement and
accompanying muscle artifact was seen.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Brief stage II sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric
vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 52 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
