HISTORY:

41 y.o. female with a history of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Keppra



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The background consists of ~9 Hz apha posteriorly, weak AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient and mild
excess of diffuse polymorphic theta activity.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Patient very rapidly transitions from wakefulness to drowsiness.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


A single left frontal (F3 max) sharp transient is captured during sleep.  This waveform could represent
a displaced vertex wave.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild diffuse slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This finding is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  In
this patient it could be related to excessive drowsiness, given how fast she transitions from
wakefulness to drowsiness/ sleep.





A single left frontal sharp transient is of uncertain clinical significance.  A repeat prolonged EEG may
be of benefit.
