HISTORY:

59 y.o. male with a history of cognitive impairment, episodes of loss of
consciousness referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


"April  2016 lost consciousness and was evaluated in the ED and a heart monitor was implanted. He
was hospitalized at Aria for five days and then sent him home. He had to stop working due to
repeated spells of loss of consciousness and he stopped driving also. Was hospitalized again around
that time. He has no energy, cannot work. Recently he has been at home sitting around, helps with
cleaning but his wife feels like some days she cannot leave him alone at home so she takes him to
work. He has left the stove on several times in the past few weeks. He cannot find his wallet
sometimes. Last Monday they called TD bank because of money trouble and he could not recall the
transaction. He has spells of antegrade amnesia that involve meeting people and doing things. His
mood is volatile, sometimes depressed, frustrated, has thrown things and this is out of character for
him. He has had multiple spells of left face weakness and "glazed over" look. These spells last for
minutes and there are





no positive limb movements

MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


alprazolam (XANAX) 0.5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily as needed for Sleep or
Anxiety (Take one prior to MRI and OK to repeat in 15 minutes).



TECHNIQUE:




A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7.5 Hertz 30-40 uV posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  There is an increase in beta



Sleep is not sustained



Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Elicits an increase in amplitude of the background



Photic Stimulation: Does not significantly activate the record



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 50-60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:




1. Mild generalized slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are non-specific and support a mild, diffuse CNS process.  They can be seen in
cognitive disorders, and neurodegenerative disorders, B12 deficiency and other CNS disturbances.
There were no epileptiform discharges
