DATE OF STUDY: 05/13/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy





HISTORY:

 a 67 y.o. female with a history of recurrent hepatic encephalopathy, now found
down with an episode concerning for a seizure.



MEDICATIONS:

Keppra, fentanyl



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: fentanyl



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:


There is no PDR or AP gradient.



The background consists of a mixture of diffuse polymorphic theta and delta activity and continuous
triphasic waveforms.



Triphasic waveforms are more blunted over the left hemisphere.



There is subtle paucity of faster frequencies over the left.


During brief drowsiness, triphasic waves decrease in frequency and brief periods of discontinuity
appear.





ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~69 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and briefly drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Moderate diffuse slowing


2. Focal left hemispheric slowing

3. Continuous triphasic waveforms.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific, but in this case could be metabolic in etiology.


Triphasic waves are a nonspecific EEG finding that can be seen in encephalopathy (mostly
commonly hepatic), uremia, anoxia and many other etiologies.






Continuous focal slowing is suggestive of a focal structural lesion over the left.  It could also be seen
as a post-ictal phenomenon.



No seizures are captured.






























































