HISTORY:

70 y.o. male with a history of acute aphasia,

transient  Worsening with modest MRI findings referred for


routine EEG for possible seizures


MEDICATIONS:


Ativan for MRI, Depakote, ? Haldol


SEDATION: see above



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG nand tactile stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is not symmetric, but  reactive, and


consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal

beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior


gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and

reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which

attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


Focal slowing is present: intermittent, left posterior temporal


or left frontotemporal.  The posterior temporal slowing disrupts

the alpha rhythm.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:  Not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72*bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an ab normal awake and asleep routine EEG.


1 Left focal slowing,particularly posterior temporal

2. Shifting slowing


There are no clinical or electrographic events, no epileptiform


discharges reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Focal slowing on the left, intermittent.



This routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.  Focal features are congruent with imaging.

