HISTORY:

58 y.o. male with a history of 58 year old man that coded this morning at 8:33
am for 12 minutes and 9:15 am for 5 minutes. All sedation has been stopped at the time of the
recording, but previously had been on fentanyl, midazolam, and vecuronium. Patient's temperature
is 93.3F, his mental status is altered and his pupils are unequal.




MEDICATIONS: No AEDs or sedatives at the time of the recording



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Bedside Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and tactile and verbal
stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:






The background is characterized by the presence of a poorly organized diffusely slow theta
frequencies, with at times overlying beta frequencies, and at times intermittent beta frequencies,
without a posterior dominant rhythm. There is intermittent background attenuation lasting at most 3
seconds in duration. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is absent.




Sleep is not captured.



Generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: tactile and verbal stimulation did not change the background



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 102 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

1. Diffuse generalized slowing with intermittent background attenuation

2. Overlying, and at times intermittent beta



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



This is an abnormal bedside routine EEG due to generalized diffuse slowing with intermittent and
overlying beta frequencies.

These findings of diffuse generalized slowing are suggestive of the presence of diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, nonspecific in etiology, but may be due at least in part to ongoing medication effect.


No epileptiform activity is seen.
