HISTORY:

49 y.o. male with a history of presumed autoimmune encephalopathy referred
for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events: about 1 hour prior to study, nurse witnessed
bilateral upper extremity twitching that was nonsuppressible to palpation, along with right gaze
deviation. By the time patient was examined by on-call MDs, there was no shaking and he appeared
to have left gaze preference.





MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


LORazepam (ATIVAN) tablet 0.5 mg

enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 60 mg

albumin human 5 % injection 175 g


calcium gluconate 3.5 g in sodium chloride 0.9 % 250 mL IVPB

sodium chloride 0.9 % IV bolus

sodium chloride 0.9 % IV bolus


famotidine (PEPCID) 40 mg/5 mL (8 mg/mL) suspension 20 mg

white petrolatum-mineral oil (LACRI-LUBE) ophthalmic ointment 1 Application



ARIPiprazole (ABILIFY) tablet 2 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) oral solution 650 mg

ipratropium-albuterol (DUO-NEB) nebulizer solution 3 mL


polyvinyl alcohol (LIQUIFILM TEARS) 1.4 % ophthalmic solution 2 drop

bisacodyl (DULCOLAX) suppository 10 mg

chlorhexidine (PERIDEX) 0.12 % solution 15 mL

polyethylene glycol (GLYCOLAX) packet 17 g


senna (SENOKOT) tablet 1 tablet

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.





EEG BACKGROUND:

Background activity was characterized by diffuse low voltage delta activity with absence of the
expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies. No posterior dominant rhythm was present.
Sleep transients is not captured.




There is no reactivity to noxious stimulation. There is no variability or state change.


Approximately every 2 seconds a diffuse burst of delta activity occurs that lasts ~600 msec. This
activity corresponds to inspiration.




There is severe generalized slowing.

There is no focal slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY / EVENTS:

9/10/2016 11:36

EEG: sudden onset of rhythmic 5 Hz activity with 200 msec lead-in over left hemisphere. EEG quickly
obscured by diffuse muscle artifact. When high cut filter is reduced to 30 Hz, theta activity continues
over left hemispheric leads and slows to rhythmic delta, with spread over right hemisphere. Offset is
gradual, with return to attenuated background. Duration approximately 2 min 53 sec.






CLINICAL: approximately 8 seconds into electrographic onset, patient opens eyes and slightly tilts
head back, blinks eyes several times. Stares straight ahead. Gaze may deviate to left (but he is not
tested during this time to see if it can be overcome). Intermittently blinks left eyelid.


EKG: no change



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 114 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal coma study portable stat EEG due to:

1. Severe generalized slowing, with lack of reactivity


2. Seizure of left hemispheric onset with very subtle clinical signs, as above

3. Tachycardia



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are diagnostic for left hemispheric seizure activity, resolved by end of study,
superimposed on a severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


Tachycardia is captured on a single EKG lead.



These findings were communicated to the treating team; patient was started on Keppra.
