HISTORY:

55 y.o. male with a history of lifelong medically refractory epilepsy, right
mesial temporal sclerosis reported on MRI, recent breakthrough seizure with scalp laceration referred
for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


zolpidem (AMBIEN) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth nightly as needed for Sleep.

clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth 2 times daily as needed for Anxiety.

prednisoLONE acetate (PRED FORTE) 1 % ophthalmic suspension, 1 drop 4 times daily.


zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 3 capsules in am and 3 capsules in pm.

divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 500 mg 24 hr tablet, One tab qam and 2 tabs qpm

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.


omega-3 acid ethyl esters (LOVAZA) 1 gram capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily for 360 days.

calcium-vitamin D (CALCIUM 500 + D) 500 mg(1,250mg) -200 unit per tablet, Take 1 tablet by
mouth 2 times daily (with meals).


simvastatin (ZOCOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.


levothyroxine (SYNTHROID) 50 mcg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

FLUOXETINE HCL (PROZAC PO), Take 10 mg by mouth daily.


lacosamide (VIMPAT) 50 mg Tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth every 12 hours.

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  There are
other sections of the record when the patient appears to be awake, the alpha rhythm is 7-8 Hz




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. POSTS present



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



intermittent generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Occasional wicket waves are noted during drowsiness over the temporal regions, L>R



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.




EVENTS: There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1.  Intermittent slowing of the background and apparent wakefulness

CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are nonspecific.  The pharmacy may contribute to the pattern described above.
Additional evaluation, including EEG monito, may be helpful given the recent seizure related injury.
