HISTORY:

47 y.o. female with a history of seizures

(described as


baseline

characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: Keppra 500 mg q12h


SEDATION: none



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves. Stage II and slow wave

sleep were not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


Occasional subtle focal slowing is present in the left temporal

region during hyperventilation.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. A 4.6-second burst of frontally-predominant 3.5 Hz generalized

monomorphic spike and wave activity is seen 1 minute after


hyperventilation. The patient immediately follows a command to

open her eyes.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation.and accentuates mild slowing in the


left temporal region. One minute after hyperventilation, the

burst of generalized spike-wave described above is seen.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Occasional subtle focal slowing in the left temporal region

during hyperventilation

2. Burst of frontally-predominant 3.5 Hz generalized monomorphic


spike and wave activity is seen 1 minute after hyperventilation,

without clinical signs



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of a generalized

epileptiform disorder and are characteristic of


idiopathic/genetic generalized epilepsy, but there is also

evidence of a superimposed left temporal cerebral dysfunction.
