HISTORY:

53 y.o. male with a history of provoked generalized tonic-clonic seizures in the
setting of hyperosmolar hyperglycemic nonketotic state and bilateral punctate subcortical acute
infarcts (5/2/2014).  referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


amLODIPine (NORVASC) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.

rivaroxaban (XARELTO) 15 mg Tablet, Take 15 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

rivaroxaban (XARELTO) 20 mg Tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.

insulin aspart protamine-insulin aspart (NOVOLOG 70/30) 100 unit/mL (70-30) injection, Inject 25
Units into the skin 2 times daily (before meals).


aspirin 81 mg chewable tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.


SEDATION: None




TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive  9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


Rare bursts of shifting  focal theta /delta slowing is present in the temporal regions in the transition to
sleep.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None

OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None

ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:




Photic Stimulation: Does not activate the record


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of  70 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  Irregular


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal routine EEG due to:

1. occasional shifting slowing in drowsiness






CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are frequently found in association with cerebrovascular
disease.  No epileptiform features were identified.  This is a mildly abnormal EEG for subject of this
age.  The shifting slowing noted is not uncommon in older adults with ischemic cerebrovascular
disease
