HISTORY:

83 y.o. 83 yo woman found down with out pulse at home for an unknown
amount of time. Pt has been off sedation since 9:51 am 6/13/16. Pt is having full body jerking.



PMH: Breast cancer, DM2, CAD, Hyperlipidemia, HTN



MEDICATIONS:

Insulin and Heparin



SEDATION: Propofol is off for about 20 min


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system


with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically limited record due to
muscle artifact and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


No posterior dominant rhythm was present. Background activity was characterized by diffuse very low
voltage delta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.



Sleep is not captured




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


There are intermittent bursts of what appears to be frontal predominant generalized polyspike and
wave followed by theta slow waves. However there is an associated muscle artifact that impedes a
clear evaluation of the discharges.


This bursts lasts ~ 1-3 seconds.



During the bursts irregular body jerks are seen on the video. Patient undergoes verbal, tactile and
noxious stimulation but there is clear associated change in background or worsening of bursts.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.




EVENTS:

See above.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


1. Bursts of generalized polyspike and wave with associated myoclonus.


2. Severe diffuse slow waves and attenuation




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal comatose routine EEG due to bursts of generalized polyspike and wave with
associated myoclonus and severe diffuse background slowing and attenuation.  These findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction and irriability.  In the setting
of hypoxic injury this findings are suggestive of a poor prognosis.
