HISTORY:

25 y.o. male with a history of post-traumatic

epilepsy (last seizure: 2 yrs ago) and craniotomy s/p


cranioplasty, referred for routine EEG for follow up.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily.


multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

daily.

HYDROCODONE BIT/ACETAMINOPHEN (VICODIN PO), Take  by mouth as


needed.


SEDATION: None






TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.


There is occasional sharply contoured theta slowing, with admixed

faster frequencies, over the right posterior quadrant (parietal


max) (P4 max, occasionally seen at T6) region.  The sharply

contoured faster frequencies likely represent a breach rhythm.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180


seconds with fair cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal Awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Occasional sharply contoured theta slowing over the right


posterior quadrant (parietal max) (P4 max, occasionally seen at

T6) region


2. Admixed faster frequencies over the right posterior quadrant

(parietal max).  The sharply contoured faster frequencies likely

represent a breach rhythm.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of right posterior quadrant

(parietal max) cerebral dysfunction.

A breach rhythm is consistent with this patient's known prior

history of craniotomy.
