HISTORY:

59 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy status post head


trauma in 1992.referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures. Non compliant, Hx ETOH
abuse



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 3 capsules by mouth nightly for 360 days.

divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 500 mg 24 hr tablet, ?

albuterol (PROVENTIL HFA;VENTOLIN HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs
4 times daily. Use for the next 10 days


gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily.


cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth 3 times daily as needed for Muscle
spasms.

oxycodone (ROXICODONE) 30 mg immediate release tablet,





SEDATION: none



TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and tactile /verbal  stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of an organized symmetric mixture of alpha
and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The
normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.   The background is
slightly disorganized with alpha ranging 9.5-11 Hz and excess theta. There is prominent beta.
Lambda may have been seen on the right.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric though infrequent
vertex waves, sleep spindles . Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Modest generalized slowing is present.


Shifting focal slowing is present. This includes focal delta, low voltage in the right hemisphere, in
sleep and some focal bursts of slowing in the left central region, in drowsiness.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Rhythmic mid-temporal theta of drowsiness noted over the temporal regions/posterior temporal
regions



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: tactile and auditory stimuli elicit an alerting and alpha rhythm.



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.





IMPRESSION: Abnormal due to


1. Shifting focal slowing and mild disorganization.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are frequently found in association with post ictal state or TBI.  No sharp waves were
found. These results are similar to recent LTM
