HISTORY:

64 y.o. female with a history of dementia,

HTN, alcohol abuse, found down and discovered to have a left


basal ganglia/corona radiata hemorrhage s/p EVD and removal,

referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.



MEDICATIONS: Versed, Keppra


SEDATION: meds as above



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.






EEG BACKGROUND:

Most of the study consists of drowsiness and sleep.



During brief periods of wakefulness, the background is


characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric

mixture of alpha, theta, and beta frequencies, with a symmetric

and reactive 7-8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The

normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude


is present but suboptimal.



Drowsiness and sleep are characterized by further background

slowing and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm.

Well-formed sleep transients are not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

There is occasional polymorphic slowing and attenuation of faster


frequencies over the left hemisphere.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Occasional polymorphic slowing and attenuation of faster


frequencies over the left hemisphere



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left hemispheric

dysfunction with cortical injury superimposed on mild diffuse

cerebral dysfunction.
