HISTORY:

71 y.o. male with a history of suspected focal seizure (picking at his shirt, with
stiffening of his left arm and right gaze, positive for incontinence), R MCA infarct, L frontal gliosis
when then suffered a PEA arrest on 5/28, referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status
change.



MEDICATIONS: Heparin, Zosyn, Dilantin, Keppra, Famotidine



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically limited record as
the fronto-temporal leads were affected by diffuse, nearly continuous artifact. The study included a
single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

Interpretation of the background is limited by nearly continuous muscle artifact affecting the bilateral
fronto-temporal leads.



Bilateral occipital regions demonstrate disorganized suppressed activity.  There is no posterior
dominant rhythm. There is no reactivity/variability/state change. Spontaneous eyeblink artifact is
noted.


During noxious stimulation, the tech notes that the patient moves left arm but not the right arm. He
does not respond to verbal stimulation. He is noted to have left gaze preference.




Severe generalized slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal, technically limited, asleep only routine EEG due to:


1. Suppressed activity in the bilateral occipital regions (bilateral fronto-temporal regions are affected
by diffuse muscle artifact, limiting interpretation), with lack of reactivity/variability/state change, and
severe generalized slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
