HISTORY:

80 y.o. Female with a history of convulsions

and dementia referred for routine EEG for behavioral disturbance.



MEDICATIONS: Keppra, Ativan, Tylenol, Atorvastatin



SEDATION: as above


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a




fairly well organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta

frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8 Hertz posterior


dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient

of frequency and amplitude is present, but suboptimal.



Much of the study consists of drowsiness and light sleep.  During

drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and further


background slowing are seen.



There are normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric

vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes present during Stage

II sleep. Slow wave sleep is not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

There is occasional bilateral independent temporal polymorphic


slowing.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional right temporal (T4 max) sharp waves



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal Awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing

2. Suboptimal organization

3. Occasional bilateral independent temporal polymorphic slowing

4. Occasional right temporal sharp waves



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of right temporal

epileptiform potentials superimposed on bitemporal cerebral

dysfunction, as well as mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
