HISTORY:

17 y.o. male with a history of vertigo and syncope referred for routine EEG for
evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


RANITIDINE HCL (ZANTAC PO), Take  by mouth.

TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.  The patient seems to be
very sleepy.  Muscle twitch artifact is noted in sleep





EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  The EEG is appropriately organized for an adult of this
age





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by vertex waves K complexes spindles and posts.  The patient is falling asleep
during photic stimulation.  There are handful of vertex waves which phase reversed to the right or
left of the midline



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

1. Wicket, temporal regions


2. A single burst of left temporal sharply contoured slowing was noted in drowsiness/hyperventilation


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Elicits somewhat asynchronous bursts of slowing

Photic Stimulation: Despite the presence of stage II sleep during photic stimulation there was a
driving response



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION: This is a mildly abnormal awake and asleep EEG for a person of this age

1. Asymmetry in the field of vertex waves


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is routine EEG demonstrates multiple normal variants, but the asymmetry of vertex waves if
considered outside of the range of normal.  This is a nonspecific finding and may be correlated with
history exam and imaging . This normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of
epilepsy; there were no epileptiform discharges.
