HISTORY:

41 y.o. male with a history of episodes of loss

of consciousness (shaking, postictal confusion, preceded by


dizziness and nausea) for 6 months; the last episode was last

week, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal

events.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth 3

times daily as needed for Muscle spasms.

predniSONE (DELTASONE) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.


zolpidem (AMBIEN) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth nightly as

needed for Sleep.

simvastatin (ZOCOR) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth nightly.


lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth




daily.

mometasone (NASONEX) 50 mcg/actuation nasal spray, Inhale 2


sprays into the nose daily.

albuterol (PROVENTIL HFA;VENTOLIN HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler,


Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs every 6 hours as needed for

Wheezing.

tiotropium (SPIRIVA) 18 mcg inhalation capsule, Inhale 18 mcg

into the lungs daily.


fluticasone-salmeterol (ADVAIR) 500-50 mcg/dose diskus inhaler,

Inhale 1 puff into the lungs every 12 hours.


omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 40 mg capsule, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically


with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric

background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps), performed during sleep, does not


produce any EEG changes.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.
