HISTORY:

37 y.o. female with a history of seizures referred for routine EEG for
evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, 100 mg 3 times daily.

ergocalciferol, Vitamin D2, 50,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth every 7 days.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation. The EEG was recorded for 1 HOUR.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is markedly disorganized and is characterized by diffuse thetas (5-6Hz)
slowing. The slowing is slightly more prominent over the left hemisphere, There is no clear posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is
disrupted.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) There are intermittent sharp waves seen emanating from the left
temporal region maximal at T3-T5. No clinical or electrographic seizures were seen.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study. At one point during
hyperventilation, the patient commented that she felt "shaky". There was no electrographic correlate
to this.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 70 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.





IMPRESSION:
y

This is an abnormal, 1 HOUR awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Diffuse bihemispheric (left > right) theta slowing.


2. Intermittent left temporal sharp waves.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of an epileptiform focus in the left temporal region, possibly
linked to a structural brain lesion.Diffuse slowing may indicate a toxic or metabolic encephalopathy
or diffuse structural brain injury.
