HISTORY:

58 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy, currently seizure-free referred for routine
EEG for characterization of seizures.  This is a repeat EEG after a recent normal EEG



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

nitroGLYCERIN (NITROSTAT) 0.4 mg SL tablet, Place 0.4 mg under the tongue every 5 minutes as
needed.


LORazepam (ATIVAN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet ~30-60 minutes prior to the scan. May take another
tablet right before the scan.


zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 3 capsules by mouth daily for 360 days.

TECHNIQUE:


A 1 hour Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International
10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically
satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  There is generalized frontocentral beta





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  Prominent central theta is noted in
drowsiness Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex
waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:      Photic Stimulation: Although the patient was drowsy, and driving
response was elicited




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of  60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal 1 hour  EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.  If additional
information is needed, either a sleep deprived EEG or 24-hour monitor may be considered
