HISTORY:

62 y.o. male with a history of a WHO grade II

infiltrating glioma in the left posterior superior mid temporal


lobe with seizures referred for routine EEG for characterization

of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: Depakote and Keppra


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.


There is frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

There is frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) left temporal rhythmic delta

activity at 1.5-2 Hz for runs < 3 seconds, at times with embedded

left mid-temporal spikes (T3 max).



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 108 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing

2. Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) left temporal rhythmic delta


activity at 1.5-2 Hz for runs < 3 seconds, at times with embedded

left mid-temporal spikes (T3 max)


3. Mild tachycardia on a single EKG lead.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left temporal


epileptogenic discharges superimposed on left temporal

dysfunction.



When compared to the patient's long term study in 11/2015, the

current study demonstrates a similar background and left temporal

slowing pattern.



Of note, a heart rate of 108 bpm is captured on a single EKG


lead.


























