
HISTORY:

46 y.o. female with a history of seizure disorder, reporting no seizures since
last year, now complaining of frequent dizziness, referred for routine EEG for evaluating the cause for
her dizzy sensation.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


IBUPROFEN (ADVIL PO), Take  by mouth.

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily (before meals) for
30 days.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive low to medium amplitude 10-11 Hertz
posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Low amplitude
frontocentral 18-30 Hz activity was seen. Moderate amounts of muscle and eye movement artifact
were seen




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves and
increased generalized delta frequency slowing. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 64 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. If clinically indicated, a
sleep deprived tracing capturing more prolonged stage II sleep or ambulatory EEG recording may
provide additional helpful information.
