HISTORY: 72 y.o. male with a history of right subdural hematoma and seizures.    MEDICATIONS: Current Outpatient Prescriptions: UNKNOWN TO PATIENT,  levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth at bedtime. calcium acetate (PHOSLO) 667 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily (with meals). carvedilol (COREG) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily (with meals) for 360 days. nitroGLYCERIN (NITROSTAT) 0.4 mg SL tablet, Place 0.4 mg under the tongue every 5 minutes as needed for Chest pain.  No current facility-administered medications for this visit.    SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.  EEG BACKGROUND: The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well-organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.   During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.   Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.  Intermittent LEFT anterior temporal polymorphic sharply contoured delta activity is captured over the left anterior temporal region. Similar activity, but to a lesser degree, is present over the right anterior temporal region.  FIRDA (frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity) is observed during drowsiness.  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left anterior temporal sharp waves are noted (F7/T1 maximally).  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:        Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.       Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional abnormalities.   EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  HEART RATE: A heart rate of 72 bpm with premature QRS complexes is captured on a single EKG lead.  IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal awake and asleep 68-minute routine EEG due to: 1. Intermittent bilateral, left>right, moderate focal slowing 2. FIRDA (frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity) 3. Occasional left anterior temporal spikes  CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Intermittent focal slowing is suggestive of a focal structural lesions over the bilateral anterior temporal regions. There is a potentially epileptogenic focus over the left anterior temporal region.  FIRDA (frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity) is seen in the setting of encephalopathy, increased ICP and bilateral white matter lesions.    
