HISTORY:

92 y.o. female with a history of recurrent strokelike symptoms.  Admitted with
waxing and waning mental status.  Had an episode of speech arrest during baseline EEG with right
rhythmic discharge referred for EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Keppra was discontinued and the patient received Depakote


SEDATION: Ativan



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with
T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and
included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.  The patient was initially very drowsy after
receiving Ativan.  As the recording continued, she had difficulty keeping electrodes on and was
asking to have the study discontinued on the morning of the 16th




.


DAY 1 (05-15-16,  - 5/16/2016,)



BACKGROUND:

Although initially, the patient is very sedated, the initial awake record demonstrated  continuous,
symmetric, well-organized EEG , and consists predominantly of theta with admixed frontocentral beta
.


Posterior dominant rhythm was minimal



The background is   Reactive and  variable.



There were  no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.


Sleep was was characterized by vertex waves.



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

none


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

none

EVENTS: no clinical seizures.  Intermittent slow speech was not associated



EKG: A single lead captured HR 60 BPM



DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Although the baseline EEG demonstrated rhythmic slowing from the right temporal region which was
sharply contoured with underlying sharp waves, this study shows only generalized background slowing.




----- ----------------------------------------------------------



FINAL IMPRESSION:


This is abnormal video EEG due to:



1. generalized background slowing-







FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings support a bihemispheric disturbance of cerebral dysfunction.  These findings may be
correlated with imaging and clinical picture.

Although the patient had a clear, clinical seizure in the EEG lab which may have started before the
EEG was running, no additional seizures were noted.


She did receive neurological medications which may have contributed to the psychomotor slowing
noted on the morning of the 16th

