HISTORY:

67 y.o. woman s/p ruptured right PCOM and surgical clipping of aneursym and
VP shunt for hydrocephalus and revision surgery for shunt failure.


EEG to rule out sz, pt has intermittent left should and leg twitching


MEDICATIONS:


Keppra


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:





No posterior dominant rhythm was present. Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.


Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right hemisphere maximal at P4/T6 region
during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.




There is associated attenuation of activity over that region.


Sleep is not captured



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

The are intermittent to frequent sharp waves with phase reversal at P4/T6.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.




EVENTS:


There patient had intermittent left arm and left leg twitching reported that had no EEG correlate.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


1. Right posterior quadrant sharp waves

2. Continuous right hemispheric maximal posterior quadrant focal slowing and attenuation

3. Moderate to severe diffuse slow



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to right posterior quadrant sharp waves, which are
indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in that region. In addition there is right hemispheric
maximal posterior quadrant focal slowing and attenuation.  These findings are indicative of severe
focal cerebral cortical structural dysfunction in this region. Lastly there is diffuse background slowing
and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse
cerebral dysfunction.
