HISTORY:

54 y.o. male with a history of L eye blindness, L frontal ICH, and seizures referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: Topamax, Keppra, Prilosec, Naprosyn, Theragran



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.






During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.


Occasional left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing is present.

Rare right fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are \no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Occasional left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing

2. Rare right fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:





These findings indicate the presence of left fronto-temporal dysfunction (which is likely structural in
etiology based on past history) > right fronto-temporal dysfunction (structural or physiologic in origin).
