
HISTORY: 49 yo female p/e

49 y.o. female with a history of left sided weakness that started 2 hours prior to
admission. No hx of seizures. (PMH: Moya Moya disease s/p bypass R STA to MCA bypass, Asthma,
CVA, DM, Lupus, GERD, HTN) referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events. Tech
notes scar over T4 region.




MEDICATIONS: Propranolol, Lamictal, Seroquel, Keppra, Lexapro, Valium, Reglan, Zestril,
Diflucan, Plaquenil, Singulair, Mevacor, Prilosec, Topamax, Klonopin, Proventil, Metformin




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.

There is occasional bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing.

Occasionally waveforms are slightly higher in amplitude over the right temporal region (T4 max)



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Occasional bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing


2. Occasional amplitude asymmetry with higher waveforms over right temporal region


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of bitemporal cerebral dysfunction. Higher
amplitudes seen over the right temporal region are consistent with a subtle breach artifact, which
correlates with history of skull defect over this region.

