HISTORY:

46 y.o. male with a history of TBI (hit on R side of head as child with a bat); presenting
after a seizure last week, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: Dilantin



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically difficult record
due to abundant muscle artifact, and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized mixture of alpha,
excess beta, and excess theta frequencies. Posterior dominant rhythm is 8 Hz on right but up to 9 Hz
on left. There is continuous sharply contoured polymorphic slowing over the right posterior temporal
region.




The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but suboptimal.



Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Continuous right posterior temporal polymorphic slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing, with excess theta activity, and suboptimal organization

2. Slower posterior dominant rhythm over the right

3. Continuous right posterior temporal polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of right posterior temporal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural
in etiology, superimposed on right hemispheric dysfunction and mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.




Excess beta activity can be seen in the setting of medications such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.
This EEG is similar in findings to the EEG previously reported on 5/20/2015.

