HISTORY:

67 y.o. female with a history of traumatic brain injury presenting with altered
mental status with Utox positive for opiates, s/p narcan, referred for routine EEG for assessment of
mental status change.




MEDICATIONS: Narcan



SEDATION: none


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a somewhat technically limited
study due to periods of muscle artifact affecting the temporal chains, and included a single channel
of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:






The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
theta and alpha frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but
suboptimal.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and further background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by further background slowing. Rudimentary symmetric sleep transients
including sleep spindles and K-complexes are captured. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild to moderate generalized slowing is present.

No definite focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional left temporal sharply contoured theta waves are seen, in one instance occurring in a
run <1 second, not clearly pathologic. These may represent wicket waves, a benign variant.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal, somewhat technically limited, awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.
The sharply contoured theta waves described above are not clearly pathologic; in fact they may
represent a benign variant (wicket waves).
