HISTORY:

50 y.o. male with a history of TBI, epilepsy,

migraine, CP, HTN, HLD referred for routine EEG for evaluation of


paroxysmal events. Admitted to TUH in Oct 2015 for LOC with fecal

incontinence. Recent TBI.  Now with recurrent LOC and R sided HA.

MEDICATIONS:


No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.

? Topiramate, Risperidone, Atenolol,  others,



SEDATION: none



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and




included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation. No

mention of craniotomy defect was made



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening. The alpha is higher amplitude on the left



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.





Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Subtle  Focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


Abundant Lambda and POSTS were seen.


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric


background slowing.  Of note, later in HV there is an asymmetry

with greater delta on the left.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces nearly symmetric photic driving.

Of note, during there is an asymmetry with slowing on the left



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is a mildly abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG.


1. Subtle Left focal slowing

CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This routine EEG suggests a potential structural or functional

disturbance on the left. There are no epileptiform features thus,

this EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
