HISTORY:

33 y.o. female with a history of 3 lifetime seizures, referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

naproxen (NAPROSYN) 500 mg tablet,

VENTOLIN HFA 90 mcg/actuation inhaler,


predniSONE (DELTASONE) 50 mg tablet, as needed.

amoxicillin (AMOXIL) 500 mg capsule,

fluticasone (FLOVENT HFA) 110 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 1 puff into the lungs every 12 hours.


cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth 3 times daily as needed for Muscle
spasms (backpain).


ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 800 mg tablet, Take 800 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain
(backaches).

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.





acetaminophen-codeine (TYLENOL #3) 300-30 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 4 hours
as needed for Pain.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) right anterior quadrant (Fp2/F8/C4 max) low amplitude (<10 uV) spikes in
drowsiness and sleep. When displayed in an average montage, these demonstrate a diffuse field,
with positive polarity over the right anterior quadrant and negative polarity over the left anterior
quadrant. Though the predominant field is anterior quadrant, they have a morphology consistent
with benign epileptiform transients of sleep (BETS).





OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.





EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This awake and asleep 1-hour EEG is notable for:

1. Frequent right anterior quadrant low amplitude spikes in drowsiness and sleep, which may
represent a benign variant



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



The above noted spikes have some features consistent with a benign variant, but an epileptogenic
focus in the right frontal region cannot completely be excluded. There were no such spikes seen over
the left hemisphere.
