HISTORY:

28 y.o. male with a history of TBI and seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

lorazepam (ATIVAN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed.

docusate (COLACE) 60 mg/15 mL syrup, Take 60 mg by mouth daily.


famotidine (PEPCID) 40 mg/5 mL suspension, Take 20 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

lactulose (CEPHULAC) 10 gram packet, Take 10 g by mouth 3 times daily.

aluminum & magnesium hydroxide-simethicone (MAALOX PLUS) 400-400-40 mg/5 mL suspension,
Take 10 mLs by mouth every 6 hours as needed.


magnesium hydroxide (MILK OF MAGNESIA) 2,400 mg/10 mL suspension, Take  by mouth daily as
needed.


senna-docusate (SENNOSIDES-DOCUSATE SODIUM) 8.6-50 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth
daily.
quetiapine (SEROQUEL) 100 mg tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth 2 times daily.




levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take one tablet twice daily.

verapamil (CALAN-SR) 240 mg CR tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


oxycodone (ROXICODONE) 30 mg immediate release tablet, Take 1 tablet every 4 hours as
necessary.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Frequent polymorphic theta activity is captured over the left midtemporal - central region.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with fair cooperation and
accentuates focal slowing in the left midtemporal- central region





Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Frequent left midtemporal- central mild-to-moderate focal slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region.



No epileptiform discharges are present, but stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If clinically indicated,
repeat EEG with sleep recording may provide additional information.
