HISTORY:

20 y.o. Man with a hx of seizures as a child which stopped when he was in 3rd
grade. Last week patient had an episode where he fell and began to shake, he saw flashing lights
which only lasted a few minutes. Prior to falling he felt nauseas. Asthma.




MEDICATIONS:

ZOLOFT



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is characterized by the presence of a poorly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). A anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




Excess 5-7Hz diffuse activity is seen in wakefulness.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Frontal Intermittent rhythmic delta  (2-4 hz) activity lasting for 2-4 seconds are seen consistent with
FIRDA.



Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right midtemporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and
produces diffuse, symmetric high-voltage, frontally-maximal 2-3 Hz activity.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.






IMPRESSION:

1. Focal slow in the right mid-temporal region


2. Mild to moderate diffuse slow and FIRDA



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to intermittent focal slowing in the right
midtemporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
non-specific. In addition there is mild to moderate diffuse background slowing, FIRDA and
disorganization.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.
