HISTORY:

38 y.o. female with a history of unspecified tumor resection, left frontotemporal
skull defect, and reported seizures beginning in November 2013, characterized by loss of
consciousness and postictal confusion, with most recent episode occurring this morning, referred for
routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:


Gabapentin, dosage and compliance uncertain.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:




Wakefulness is characterized by occasional low amplitude symmetric and reactive 9-11 Hertz
posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. A large amount
of anteriorly predominant low voltage 15-25 Hz activity was seen. Frequent low voltage muscle
artifact was also seen.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves and
increased generalized low to medium amplitude delta and theta frequency slowing. No focal slowing
is present.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. If clinically indicated, a
more prolonged sleep deprived tracing or ambulatory EEG may provide additional helpful
information.

