
HISTORY:

46 y.o. male with a history of left frontoparietal craniotomy for resection


of left frontal lobe tumor referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours for 360 days.
prochlorperazine (COMPAZINE) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for
nauseaondansetron (ZOFRAN) 8 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours as needed for
Nausea.



sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim (BACTRIM DS) 800-160 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth three
times a week for 30 days.


temozolomide (TEMODAR) 140 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily for 30 days.

baclofen (LIORESAL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

dexamethasone (DECADRON) 2 mg tablet, Take 6 mg (3 tabs) q8hrs x 8 doses, then 4 mg q6 hrs x 4
days, then 4mg  q8hrs x 3 days,  Then 4 mg  q12 hrs x 3 days, then 2mg po BID


pantoprazole (PROTONIX) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days.




sertraline (ZOLOFT) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

oxyCODONE-acetaminophen (PERCOCET) 5-325 mg per tablet, Take 1-2 tablets every 4-6 hours as
needed for pain.


alprazolam (XANAX) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily as needed (panic attacks).
diphenhydrAMINE (BENADRYL) 25 mg capsule,  gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 1
tablet by mouth 3 times daily. vardenafil (STAXYN) 10 mg Tablet, Rapid Dissolve, Take 10 mg by
mouth daily.



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.  There is a prominent left
craniotomy defect noted.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence  left frontal breech.  In addition, there is  a
well organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.3
Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present.  In very early drowsiness or relaxed wakefulness, left frontocentral focal slowing
starts to emerge with subtle underlying rhythmic theta delta



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  The left focal frontal slowing is a bit
more prominent


Sleep is brief but includes vertex waves and spindles.  Again, not only the craniotomy defect with
artifact is noted but there is some underlying left frontocentral focal slowing, now with some spread to
the right



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Left focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): wicket



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Hyperventilation: Accentuates the rhythmic slowing in the left frontocentral region


Photic Stimulation: Other the patient was falling asleep, there was scant driving


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal routine EEG due to:

1.  Primarily left frontocentral rhythmic slowing, with some spread to the right frontal region in
drowsiness



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings correlated with imaging, there were no epileptiform features
