HISTORY:

49 y.o. male with a history of TBI in 2012 with a resultant right craniotomy, now
with episodes of passing out.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 800 mg tablet, as needed.

trazodone (DESYREL) 150 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.


Lidocaine HCl 3 % Cream, Apply  topically 2 times daily as needed (pain/discomfort). Apply small
amount to your temple areas.


gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3 times daily for 360 days.

magnesium oxide (MAG-OX) 400 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


propranolol (INDERAL) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth twice daily


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



Patient remains awake throughout the recording.




Continuous polymorphic theta activity with underriding fast activity is captured over the right
midtemporal region (over the T4 lead).




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 56 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous mild right midtemporal focal slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region.



Breach effect is secondary to the skull defect.



No epileptiform discharges are present, but stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If clinically indicated,
repeat EEG with sleep recording may provide additional information.
