HISTORY:

60 y.o. female who presents with repetitive

seizures today. Days of R face and finger twitching.  Found to


Have Left lateral frontal versus left parietal lobe and right

anterior

temporal lobe masses with moderate resultant mass effect on


regionalsulci as well as the bilateral lateral ventricles

referred for routine EEG for screening for subclinical seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

efavirenz-emtrictabine-tenofovir (ATRIPLA) 600-200-300 mg per


tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.


Current facility-administered medications for this visit.


Phenytoin





SEDATION: 3 MG Ativan



TECHNIQUE:


A bedside portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram

(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with

T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a

technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of


EKG and tactile stimulation. Bed artifact was noted, patient was

somnolent



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a

symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric


and reactive 4.5-10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The

normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude


is present.  The overall background includes excess beta and

theta and mild disorganization.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep includes Vertex waves and K complexes


Mildgeneralized slowing is present.


Subtle focal slowing is present:

L FT, intermittent, with subtle underlying sharply contoured


slowing,. Periodic in nature.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

See above



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:Tactile stimulation elicits an alerting

EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Background disorganization

2. Excess beta

3. Rare L FT sharply contoured slowing.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings support a bi-hemispheric process, which may be due


to the CNS process, post ictal state and medications. No seizures

were recorded. LTM to follow.
