HISTORY:

24 y.o. female with a history of childhood epilepsy, previously treated with
Dilantin.  Patient has been seizure-free for a number of years.  Father also has epilepsy.  Now,
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


alprazolam (XANAX) 1 mg tablet,

cloNIDine (CATAPRES) 0.3 mg tablet,

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule,


PARoxetine (PAXIL) 20 mg tablet,

QUEtiapine (SEROQUEL) 100 mg tablet,

zolpidem (AMBIEN) 10 mg tablet,


mirtazapine (REMERON) 30 mg tablet,


TECHNIQUE:




A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.7  Hertz 50-60 uV  posterior dominant rhythm (PDR),
which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


In the transition to drowsiness, 1-2 second bursts of high amplitude 6 Hz hypersynchronous rhythmic
slowing were noted, characteristic of hypnagogic hypersynchrony

Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Wicket and hynogogic hypersynchrony were noted


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hypersynchronous rhythmic high amplitude bursts of 4-6 Hz activity were noted,
typically less than 2 seconds in duration.  None were associated with definitive spike and slow-wave
complexes




Photic Stimulation: In addition to a driving response, the patient seemed to be falling asleep with
hypersynchronous rhythmic high amplitude 6 Hz activity but no definitive spike and slow-wave activity



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are multiple normal variants , but no
definitive epileptiform discharges





CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.

If epilepsy is an important consideration, either a sleep deprived record or a more prolonged study
may be helpful in the search for spike and wave activity
