HISTORY:

26 y.o. male with a history of seizures, seizure free but has headache referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


First seizure occurred in 2011 in the setting of incarceration. He was midway into 3 yrs of
incarceration when he reports having several seizures, several weeks apart. Total ~5-6 per his
estimate. Not associated with drug/alcohol use. He was treated with Dilantin capsules. He was not
given Dilantin script when he left prison 3 yrs ago.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 600 mg by mouth daily.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 25 mg tablet, Wk 1: 25 mg qhs; Wk 2: 25 mg q12h; Wk 3: 25 mg in AM and
50 mg in PM; Wk 4: 50 mg q12h



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.

SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:




A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  There is generous frontocentral beta.  Alpha squeak was
noted





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.  Generous stage II sleep with
posts was recorded



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Produces increase in amplitude of the background


Photic Stimulation: Although the patient was in stage II sleep, a driving response was elicited



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
