HISTORY:

52 y.o. male with a history of seziure vs

syncope vs adverse drug reaction  referred for routine EEG for


characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

thiamine 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


SEDATION: none



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2




electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and


photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

40 uV posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates


symmetrically with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. POSTS. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: elicits an increase in amplitude.



Photic Stimulation: elicits scant driving, patient falling

asleep.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 48 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no


clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.



Evaluation of bradycardia may be relevant.
