HISTORY:

26 y.o. female with a history of single seizure with jaw clenching, rigidity,
incontinence and cyanotic lips, referred for routine EEG to evaluate this prior episode and potential
for further seizure activity.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


None


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:






A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically fair record and
included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background characterized by a symmetric and reactive 13 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Low voltage frontocentral beta
activity is seen, with a large amount of superimposed eye blink and muscle artifact. Electrode artifact
was seen at F3 during much of the study.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 80 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:




This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
