HISTORY:

48 y.o. male with a history of being assaulted in July, now with dizziness and
shakiness, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of tremors.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

multivitamin capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily for 360 days.

b complex vitamins (B COMPLEX 1) tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days.


amlodipine-benazepril (LOTREL) 10-20 mg per capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth 3 times daily as needed for Muscle
spasms.


clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) 0.5 mg tablet, Take 0.5 mg by mouth 2 times daily as needed for Anxiety.

Meclizine (ANTIVERT) 25 mg Tablet, Chewable, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly as needed.


montelukast (SINGULAIR) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth nightly.

albuterol (VENTOLIN HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs every 6 hours as
needed for Wheezing.


omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 40 mg capsule, Take 40 mg by mouth 2 times daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of mildly disorganized 7-8 Hertz posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR). Anteriorly predominant low amplitude 18-30 Hz activity is seen. A large
amount of muscle and frontal eyeblink artifact is noted.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.




HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 80 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild nonspecific background disorganization and slowing during wakefulness.



These findings indicate the presence of a mild bihemispheric functional disturbance such as that
seen with mild encephalopathy of various possible etiologies. No clinical or electrographic seizure
activity was seen.
