HISTORY:

29 y.o. female with a history of syncope since age 16 (feeling hot, then falling
w/ loss of consciousness, with confusion afterwards) and "psychiatric issues" referred for routine EEG
for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


hydrOXYzine (ATARAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth nightly as needed for Itching.

busPIRone (BUSPAR) 10 mg tablet,

doxepin (SINEQUAN) 50 mg capsule,


hydrOXYzine (VISTARIL) 50 mg capsule,

sertraline (ZOLOFT) 50 mg tablet,



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:




A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11-12 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

Technician notes the patient has a couple episodes of crying during the study. During these times,
the background activity slows slightly.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is a normal awake and drowsy 1-hour EEG.

There are a couple episodes of crying captured, which are associated with slightly slower background
activity.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy 1-hour EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.


The crying spells captured are associated with slightly slower background activity, which is likely
related to hyperventilation.
