HISTORY:

a 23 y.o. male with a history of Lennox Gastaut

syndrome and Klinefelter syndrome referred for routine EEG for


characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

diazepam (DIASTAT ACUDIAL) 12.5-15-17.5-20 mg Kit, Place 1 kit

rectally once.


TOPAMAX 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

TOPAMAX 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

ONFI 20 mg Tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth 2 times daily.


LAMICTAL ODT 200 mg disintegrating tablet, Take 100 tablets by

mouth 2 times daily.

cloNIDine (CATAPRES) 0.2 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth


nightly.




BANZEL 400 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily (with

meals).




No current facility-administered medications for this visit.






SEDATION: None




TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.  The

patient was restless.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is somewhat poorly organized but fairly

symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a

moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal

anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by


a symmetric and reactive 8.7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm

(PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.







Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1 T3 sharp wave was noted.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


Intermittent paroxysmal theta is noted in apparent wakefulness




ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:




Hyperventilation: increases medium amplitude theta



Photic Stimulation: produces subtle driving, asymmetric,

better seen on the right




EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION: This is a normal routine EEG.

1. Mild excess theta and disorganization

2. Subtle asymmetric photic response.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

In comparison to prior reports, no multifocal spikes were seen.


There was no slow spike and wave activity.  A single sharp, as

seen above, can be artifact.

There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or

detected.
