DATE OF STUDY: 04/26/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy





HISTORY:

a 72 y.o. male with a history of R brain tumor s/p resection, seizures, and dementa
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: furosemide, lisinopril, namenda, sertraline, gabapentin, mirtazapine



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized mixture of alpha and
excess of beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.


There is continuous subtle polymorphic slowing with superimposed fast activity over the right fronto-
temporal region (likely a breach rhythm).




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing are seen.




Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. There are abundant bursts of right fronto-temporal (F8/T2/T4/F4/C4) spikes and polyspikes in
wakefulness. While the breach rhythm cited above may cause appearance of spikes, these discharges
stand out from the background and were not seen as dramatically on the prior routine EEG in 2/2016.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Subtle continuous polymorphic slowing over the right fronto-temporal region


2. Superimposed fast activity over the right fronto-temporal region (likely a breach rhythm)

3. Abundant bursts of right fronto-temporal (F8/T2/T4/F4/C4) probable spikes and polyspikes in
wakefulness






CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of right fronto-temporal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in
etiology.


A breach rhythm is consistent with this patient's known prior history of craniectomy.
















