HISTORY:

69 y.o. female with a history of seizures, with last seizure many years ago.



MEDICATIONS:

Tegretol




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:






The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9-9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) generalized frontally predominant spikes and polyspikes are captured
during drowsiness.  They occur in isolation and in brief bursts (up to 1 sec).  They often have right
sided lead in.  Their repetition rate is up to 5 Hz.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Frequent generalized (often with right sided lead in) frontally predominant 5 Hz spikes and
polyspikes that occur in isolation and in brief bursts.






CLINICAL CORRELATION:



This finding is suggestive of idiopathic generalized mechanism of epilepsy.  However, given the fact
that there is a strong right sided lead in many of the captured discharges, frontal bisynchrony too
needs to be strongly considered as a mechanism of seizures in this patient.
