HISTORY:

58 y.o. female with a history of skull or other tumor, s/p craniotomy.  Recent OR
for drainage of fluid and treatment of hydrocephalus. Evaluate for left facial twitch.  S/p trach, not
very interactive.  Referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Not reported



SEDATION: not reported.



TECHNIQUE:

A bedside  ICU Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and  Verbal stimulation.  The
patient has a bone flap.




EEG BACKGROUND:




The waking background is abnormal.  The patient is awake, with eye opening and on the left there is
an organized  mixture of theta  alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7-9 Hertz
posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present.



The right hemisphere demonstrates marked reduction in faster frequency with more of a delta/theta
featureless pattern.  Superimposed on this is R frontocentral breech with higher amplitude R F4-C4
delta activity and focal sharp waves F4 maximum.  There is intermittent beta accentuation in the
region of the breach.




There is muscle twitch artifact noted on the left, seen at times diffusely from left temporal scalp
electrodes and intermittently as a focal twitch. The isolated twitches lack consistent link to the R
frontal sharps.




Right  focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


See above


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Auditory and tactile stimulation do not activate the records


EVENTS:


Focal facial twitch without consistent EEG correlate


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 100 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal ICU routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous R focal slowing.

2. In the context of R sided breech rhythm, R frontal focal slowing and intermittent sharp waves


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings must be interpreted in the clinical context of the patient's motor activity and imaging.
While no electrographic seizures were defined by this study, the possibility of epilepsy partialis is not
excluded by this study.
