HISTORY:

23 y.o. female with a history of R

hemispheric AVM, s/p craniotomy and resection, and seizures,


referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS: Keppra



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

suboptimal record due to abundant muscle artifact, and included a

single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is reactive but asymmetric.


The left hemisphere consists of a well organized mixture of alpha

and beta frequencies with a 10-Hz posterior dominant rhythm


(PDR).

There is continuous sharply contoured polymorphic slowing with

superimposed fast frequencies over the right posterior quadrant,

with an ill-defined posterior dominant rhythm and fair


organization.



Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

The technician notes the patient is anxious and shaking during

the study. There is no EEG correlate to this behavior.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous sharply contoured polymorphic slowing and


suboptimal organization over the right posterior quadrant

2. Continuous fast frequency activity seen over the right


posterior quadrant


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of right posterior quadrant


cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology.

The continuous fast frequency activity seen over the right


posterior quadrant likely represents a breach rhythm, and is

consistent with this patient's prior history of craniotomy.

This study is somewhat technically limited by abundant muscle

artifact; the technician noted the patient to be quite anxious.


This symptom had no EEG correlate.
