HISTORY:

48 y.o. male with a history of seizure disorder with 11 seizures over the past 3
months. He has an aura of dizziness followed by shaking, postictal confusion and metal taste in his
mouth. He is referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


LORazepam (ATIVAN) 0.5 mg tablet, Take 0.5 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 250 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 250 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

simvastatin (ZOCOR) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth nightly.


losartan (COZAAR) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth daily.

OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 150 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.






SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel one hour electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic
stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by a symmetric and reactive medium amplitude 10-10.5
Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Low
voltage anteriorly predominant beta activity is seen. A large amount of muscle artifact is seen,
obscuring portions of the underlying cerebral electrical activity.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen. In addition, runs of left temporal wicket activity were seen during
drowsiness.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal one hour awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.



A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
