HISTORY:


28 y.o. male with a history of MS referred

for routine EEG for evaluation of episodes of brief bilateral

upper extremity shaking with relatively preserved consciousness.



MEDICATIONS: Carbamazepine, gabapentin, baclofen



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is continuous, symmetric, reactive, and

well-organized, and consists of alpha, theta, and delta, with


attenuated faster frequencies. A symmetric and reactive posterior

dominant rhythm of 9 Hz is present.


During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior


dominant rhythm, and diffuse, shifting background slowing are

seen.



Sleep is characterized by symmetric and synchronous spindles and

K complexes.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



EVENTS:

Two episodes of brief upper extremity shaking are captured at


10:38, 10:39:

CLINICAL:

First event: the patient appears to stretch, then reaches for and

pushes the event button with his right arm. He then quickly


develops low amplitude rhythmic shaking of both arms and mild

flexion-extension movements of the trunk that quickly increase in


amplitude and cease abruptly after 7.5 seconds.

Second event: same as first event, except patient does not


stretch or push button, and shaking lasts 6.5 seconds.

EEG: There is no cerebral EEG correlate, only motion artifact.


There is no clear change in cerebral rhythms after cessation of

movements. Of note, motion artifact in EKG coincides with motion


artifact on EEG.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing

2. Episodes described above without EEG cerebral correlate



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of mild diffuse cerebral


dysfunction.


The episodes described above are most consistent with

nonepileptic behavioral events.
