HISTORY:

18 y.o. female with a history of childhood epilepsy, previously seizure free.  At
a generalized convulsion out of sleep this past weekend,referred for routine EEG for characterization
of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically , satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10.7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



Overall, this is a high amplitude, very youthful-appearing record



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: In sleep, particularly in drowsiness through the transition to sleep as well
as around the time of photic stimulation, there are bursts of high amplitude frontally predominant 4-5
Hz spike and wave activity with polyspike and wave activity.  The most notable discharge is at 12:33
PM and lasts approximately one second.  More discrete discharges are noted in stage II sleep and
some of the discharges are present with a vertex wave (dyshormia)






OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Produces an increase in background slowing


Photic Stimulation:  the patient is falling asleep during photic stimulation.  There is a suggestion of
a driving response but no definitive spike and wave activity



EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1.  Frontally predominant 4-5 Hz spike and wave activity, no bursts longer than 1.5 seconds





CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings 40 generalized mechanism for epilepsy.  The overall background is otherwise
unremarkable for age
