HISTORY:

23 y.o. female with a history of seizures since 2010, most recently in 5/2016
(LOC, postictal confusion, tongue biting, bladder incontinence), referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures. Patient is currently 8 months pregnant.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth twice a day

progesterone 200 mg vaginal suppository, Place 1 suppository vaginally at bedtime. To be prepared
by compounding pharmacy.


Prenatal Multivit-Ca-Min-Fe-FA (PRENATAL VITAMIN) Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:







A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric POSTS, vertex
waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed in
stage I sleep, does not produce any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 102 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:




This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.

Mild tachycardia is noted on a single EKG lead.
