HISTORY:

62 y.o. female with a history of 2 episodes of loss of consciousness over the past few
months, referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet,



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by symmetric and reactive 9-10 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Low voltage frontal central 18-30 Hz
activity was also noted.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. Brief left temporal wicket rhythm was
also seen. With progression to sleep, positive occipital sharp transients of sleep (POSTS) were noted.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
