HISTORY:

81 y.o. female who presents after a syncopal episode.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


aspirin chewable tablet 81 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.






EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.



Occasional polymorphic theta and delta activity is seen over the bilateral temporal regions during
drowsiness and sleep.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:





This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.



Occasional mild focal slowing seen over the bilateral temporal regions during drowsiness and sleep is
not considered abnormal in individuals over the age of 65 yo.
