HISTORY:

52 y.o. female with a history of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily (with breakfast). 1000 mg in
the morning and then 750 mg in the evening


acetaminophen (TYLENOL EXTRA STRENGTH) 500 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth every 6
hours as needed for Pain.


Capsaicin 0.1 % Cream, apply topically as directed twice a day

VITAMIN D 1,000 unit Tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth once daily

dicyclomine (BENTYL) 10 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.


risedronate (ACTONEL) 35 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 7 days.

loratadine (CLARITIN) 10 mg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth once daily

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 40 mg capsule, take 1 capsule by mouth twice a day




albuterol (PROVENTIL HFA;VENTOLIN HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs
every 4 hours as needed for Wheezing.


Calcium Carbonate-Vitamin D3 (CALCIUM 500 WITH D) 500 mg(1,250mg) -400 unit Tablet, Take 1
tablet by mouth daily.


fluticasone (FLONASE) 50 mcg/actuation nasal spray, Inhale 1 spray into the nose daily.

losartan (COZAAR) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

orphenadrine (NORFLEX) 100 mg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth twice a day


budesonide-formoterol (SYMBICORT) 160-4.5 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs 2
times daily.


carisoprodol (SOMA) 350 mg tablet, Take 350 mg by mouth 4 times daily as needed for Muscle
spasms.
levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly. (Patient taking differently:
Take 750 mg by mouth nightly. Pt takes med every other night.)



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




Diffuse excess beta activity is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.







EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

A single brief burst (~1.5 seconds) of high amplitude ~2.5 Hz generalized frontally predominant
moderate-to-high amplitude polyspikes is captured towards the end of the recording during stage II
sleep.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. A single brief burst of high amplitude ~2.5 Hz generalized frontally predominant moderate-to-high
amplitude polyspikes is captured during stage II sleep.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This finding is suggestive of idiopathic generalized epilepsy.



Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.
