HISTORY:

44 y.o. female with a history of subacute left occipital infarct, visual
hallucinations, profound language disorder referred for routine EEG for screening for subclinical
seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Four BP medications, ASA, Others


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Bedside Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG. There is a fair amount of
muscle noted in the background.



EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz alpha posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. There is prominent fronto-central beta. The EEG starts
with stage 2 sleep.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There was a single clinical event occurring at 3:35 pm. There were visual waves of color reported.
EEG remained entirely normal with an awake pattern. No impairment of cognition noted with this
entity.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

For this adult with a stroke, there was no focal slowing. The patients clinical symptoms were not
associated with visual symptoms.
