DATE OF STUDY: 06/24/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep



HISTORY:

a 35 y.o. male with a history of alcohol withdrawal seizures, auditory hallucinations
and epilepsy.  Seizure-free for one year.  Pancreatitis, auditory hallucinations.  Now, referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Ativan, Serax, Zofran



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is  Low voltage. symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a
moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.
Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.2 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Alpha squeak was noted.  Generous beta
activity was identified







During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is limited but includes post and vertex waves


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  Generous beta activity and a low-voltage pattern
are not uncommon in this clinical scenario.


There were no epileptiform features


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.


Attending Epileptologist: 


I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.























































































