HISTORY:

66 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy (last

seizure: last spring) and asthma referred for routine EEG for


characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily.


OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily.

simvastatin (ZOCOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth nightly.


aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.

fluticasone (FLOVENT HFA) 220 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 1

puff into the lungs as needed.


fluticasone (FLONASE) 50 mcg/actuation nasal spray, Inhale 2




sprays into the nose as needed.

ALBUTEROL IN, Inhale  into the lungs.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5


Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead. There

are occasional 1.5 second pauses.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.


A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead. There

are occasional 1.5 second pauses.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead. There

are occasional 1.5 second pauses.
