HISTORY:

19 y.o. male with a history of seizures, with

no reported seizures since the age of 10 years old.



MEDICATIONS:

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and




photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically


with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Three brief (~0.3-0.5 seconds) bursts of low amplitude


generalized, somewhat frontally predominant polyspikes are

captured.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional

abnormalities.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

polyspikes - rare- generalized


Sleep stage II


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep 28-minute EEG due to several


discharges that are concerning for generalized polyspikes.



In the proper clinical context, this finding suggests the

diagnosis of idiopathic generalized epilepsy.


A repeat longer EEG may help to elucidate the nature of suspected


polyspikes.
