HISTORY:

79 y.o. male with a history of carotid

stenosis referred for intraoperative EEG monitoring .



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


allopurinol (ZYLOPRIM) 300 mg tablet, TAKE 1 TABLET DAILY

PARoxetine (PAXIL) 20 mg tablet, TAKE 1 TABLET EVERY MORNING

clopidogrel (PLAVIX) 75 mg tablet, TAKE 1 TABLET DAILY


isosorbide mononitrate (IMDUR) 60 mg 24 hr tablet, TAKE 1 TABLET

DAILY

pantoprazole (PROTONIX) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth


daily. Stop omeprazole

finasteride (PROSCAR) 5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

fluticasone-salmeterol (ADVAIR) 250-50 mcg/dose diskus inhaler,


Inhale 1 puff into the lungs every 12 hours. USES AS NEEDED




90day supply (Patient taking differently: Inhale 1 puff into the

lungs every 12 hours. USES AS NEEDED   90day supply  Indications:


takes it as needed)

pravastatin (PRAVACHOL) 20 mg tablet, TAKE 1 TABLET DAILY


aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.


SEDATION/ OR MEDS: Fentanyl, and remifentanil,  heparin, Cardene,

propofol, vecuronium, Ancef



TECHNIQUE:


A Digital electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG. the standard operative montage


was utilized. An 11 minute wake baseline was recorded. Start time

8:53 AM. End time 12:11.  The EEG physician was present in the


OR during the clinical portions of the procedure.  Total

one-on-one position supervision in the operating room 90 minutes.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8.5

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening. There is generous frontocentral


beta. The overall awake background unremarkable..



INDUCTION:

Time 8:53 AM:

Induced rhythmic, symmetric slowing and mixed frequency pattern.

A slow paper speed, after administration of anesthesia, a subtle


asymmetry can be identified with subtle, intermittent focal

slowing noted in the left hemisphere with somewhat slower


frequency activity, more notable in the posterior regions.




There is also occasional head rocking artifact



Carotid clamp: 10:36 AM, 51 minutes duration

No focal features were noted with placement of the clamp over the


carotids.  The EEG remained unchanged.  These findings were

reported to the surgeon during the procedure.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION and CLINICAL CORRELATION:

EEG monitoring during this left carotid endarterectomy was

remarkable for subtle focal slowing noted only with sedation.

There were no additional focal features with placement of a clamp


over the carotid or at any other time during the procedure.
