START DATE OF STUDY: 05/02/16 -05/04/2016 at 1:27 PM

END DATE OF STUDY: 05042016



RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: 

EEG TYPE: Long term recording 48 hour





HISTORY:

a 55 y.o. male admitted for continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG) monitoring
with a history of: partial epilepsy. His family and other physicians feel that he is seizure free, but he
reports intermittent auras and hallucinations as well as other seizure like symptoms. A few times per
month he has spells with shaking and tongue biting.



He states that he can feel his body shaking and sweating and is conscious during the events



Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Characterization of seizures.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.









- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;


- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patients exam


(9) there have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is
not a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Impedances were measured and verified to be below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded
referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to computer hard drive.  Periods of interest
were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest and reviewed in detail.







Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For approximately 8 hours each day the
patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in person or on call 24
hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a nurse with special training
in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a technician was not available, EEG
recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and nursing performed seizure testing
and electrode maintenance.





The  spike and seizure detection computer program  was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.
Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as
selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.



Technical difficulties with this report include loss of the video.  In addition, at this juncture, parts of
the EEG monitor do not appear to have been acceptably archived.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.

LEVOTHYROXINE SODIUM (SYNTHROID PO), Take 0.05 mg by mouth.

lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet



SEDATION:  None




DAY 1 (5/2/2016,  - 53/2016, 06:00)

OXC was held


BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7-8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present



The background is reactive,  and variable.



There were  no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.


Sleep is recorded  & includes vertex waves, symmetric sleep spindles and/ K-complexes.


PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None present



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

EVENTS: Multiple Head bobbing events with out EEG change were observed.


Examples:

11:30:21 PM- no EEG change

11:56:  PM 20 seconds of head bobbing artifact.  Normal EEG beforehand, normal EEG afterwards,
patient is responsive and interactive


12:08 AM 40 seconds of head bobbing artifact.  Normal EEG beforehand, normal EEG afterwards,
patient is responsive and interactive



DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

No epileptiform features were identified.  The multiple head bobbing spells did not have an EEG
correlate.  In addition, the patient was consolable during the events





-----------------------------------------------------------------




DAY 2 (May 3, 2016, 06:00 - 5/4/2016, 13:37)



AEDs: Lamictal reduced to 150 mg BID



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 8.5 Hz.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured..




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


SEIZURES/EVENTS:


There are multiple  clinical events captured during this study.

These are brief,, 20-30 seconds of head  Bobbing without EEG change. The patient was consolable
during them and at one point, a caregiver explained to him that they weren't seizure and he was
able to stop them voluntarily




EKG: A single lead captured HR 72 BPM






-----------------------------------------------------------------



SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:



INTERICTAL FINDINGS:  The patients interictal findings were  insignificant with  normal EEG with
8.5 Hz posterior dominant rhythm,  without any focal findings  or epileptiform discharges.



The EEG normalized when Trileptal was stopped



ICTAL FINDINGS:

The patient did not have any epileptiform seizures


The patient did have behavioral events without EEG change

SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:


1. current diagnosis is nonepileptic seizures



EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:


1. Dual diagnosis of nonepileptic seizures with past history of complex partial epilepsy



CONCLUSION:

was admitted to the  for 3 days with continuous video
EEG.  This was an elective monitoring session .



The interictal EEG is characterized by initally slow posterior dominant rhythm.



The patient was  weaned off  OXC  over the course of his admission. Lamictal was reduced. We
recommend that he continue with  psychiatrist or therapist for assessment of underlying
psychopathology and diagnosis.



Patient is follow-up with as an outpatient.


