HISTORY:

74 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy in the setting of brain tumor, s/p resection in
1999, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures. Tech notes a left frontal skull defect.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 250 mg tablet, Take 250 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 2 times daily.


PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) 30 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized mixture of alpha and
beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The
normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but suboptimal.



There is continuous polymorphic slowing over the left frontal region, with superimposed sharply
contoured higher amplitude theta.


There is continuous, less prominent, independent polymorphic slowing over the right frontal region.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles
and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Continuous polymorphic slowing over the left frontal region, with superimposed sharply contoured
higher amplitude theta


2. Continuous, less prominent, independent polymorphic slowing over the right frontal region


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of bifrontal cerebral dysfunction, most likely structural in
etiology.
The superimposed sharply contoured high amplitude theta activity seen over the left frontal region is
consistent with breach rhythm and consistent with this patient's known history of craniotomy.
