HISTORY:

46 y.o. male with a history of post traumatic

epilepsy (following GSW to head in April 2009), with complex


partial seizures with R facial focal twitch in 12/26/2009.

Currently seizure free since he started Keppra without side

effects, referred for routine EEG.



MEDICATIONS:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2


times daily.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a




NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is continuous and asymmetric, with a

symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).

The right hemisphere is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies.


The left hemisphere is characterized by a fairly well organized

mixture of alpha, beta, and theta, with a left parietal breach


rhythm.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.

There is continuous left hemispheric polymorphic slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) produces bilateral photic driving, which


is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy routine EEG due to:

1. Left hemispheric continuous polymorphic slowing and suboptimal


organization

2. Left parietal breach rhythm


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of left hemispheric

dysfunction, likely structural in etiology. Left parietal breach


rhythm is consistent with this patient's known history of skull

defect.

Of note, stage II sleep is not captured during this study.
