HISTORY:

69 y.o. female with a history of strokes, now presents with symptoms
concerning for a stroke vs seizure.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Facility-Administered Medications:

insulin lispro (HumaLOG) injection 40 Units

dextrose 50% injection 25 mL


dextrose 50% injection 50 mL

glucagon (human recombinant) (GLUCAGEN) injection 1 mg

insulin lispro (HumaLOG) injection 3-15 Units


aspirin EC tablet 81 mg

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 80 mg

benzonatate (TESSALON) capsule 100 mg


clopidogrel (PLAVIX) tablet 75 mg

dextrose 50% injection 25 mL



dextrose 50% injection 50 mL

glucagon (human recombinant) (GLUCAGEN) injection 1 mg


insulin glargine (LANTUS) injection 60 Units

oxybutynin (DITROPAN) tablet 5 mg


pantoprazole (PROTONIX) EC tablet 40 mg

tolterodine (DETROL) tablet 2 mg

traMADol (ULTRAM) tablet 50 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system  with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of up to 9 Hz alpha posteriorly, but no AP
(anterior-to-posterior) gradient and excess diffuse polymorphic theta activity.  4-5 Hz activity is present
anteriorly throughout the recording.


Patient remains awake throughout the recording.



For more than half of the recording there is high amplitude abundant EMG artifact over the left
lateral leads - this obscures those portions of the recording.



Occasional slow polymorphic delta activity is seen over the left anterior temporal region.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.





Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 80 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild diffuse slowing and disorganization


2. Occasional moderate left anterior temporal focal slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


Diffuse slowing and disorganization are indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.


Focal slowing is indicative of a focal cerebral dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology.   Due to
large amount of EMG artifact present in the area covering left temporal region, additional left
temporal abnormalities might have been missed.
