HISTORY:

51 y.o. male who presented with a change in

mental status in the setting of persistent hypoglycemia, who is


now s/p a course of versed drip for status epilepticus (EEG

discontinued 2/10), now referred for EEG for assessment of

interval change in the setting of persistent altered mental


status


MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Valproate



SEDATION: None listed



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and




included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The background is symmetric and continuous, but poorly organized,


and consists of low amplitude delta with rare admixed faster

frequencies.


There is no reactivity to noxious stimulation, variability, or


state change.



Spontaneous muscle artifact, chew artifact, and eyeblink

artifact/flutter are seen.


There is severe generalized slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Abundant right posterior quadrant sharp waves (P4, O2 max),

occasionally with broader field over parasagittal region. These

are occasionally periodic at 1 Hz for runs < 10 seconds.

2. Very frequent left posterior quadrant sharp waves (P3, O1 max)


3. Occasional diffuse sharp waves with triphasic morphology



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal asleep only routine EEG due to:

1. Severe generalized slowing, poor organization, and lack of


reactivity

2. Abundant right posterior quadrant sharp waves (P4, O2 max),


occasionally with broader field over parasagittal region. These

are occasionally periodic at 1 Hz for runs < 10 seconds.

3. Very frequent left posterior quadrant sharp waves (P3, O1 max)

4. Occasional diffuse sharp waves with triphasic morphology



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of multifocal epileptogenic

discharges (most prominent are right posterior quadrant),

superimposed on severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.

There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or


detected.

When compared to the end of the long term monitoring study on


2/10/2016, the present study demonstrates similar background,

with epileptogenic discharges that are less periodic.

