HISTORY:

62 y.o. female with a history of cancer and asthma.  She had an episode of right-
sided twitching, boyfriend thought it was a seizure referred for routine EEG for characterization of
seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Facility-Administered Medications:

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

potassium chloride tablet 60 mEq


enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg

multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet 1 tablet

thiamine (B-1) 500 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB


SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:








A bedside Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG. this EEG is notable for an
nervous-appearing patient with excessive amounts of muscle and beta




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a moderate amount of bifrontal beta
activity, with scant alpha organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized very little  reactive posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically
with eye opening, but appears to be in the beta frequency range.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse beta are seen.


Sleep is not sustained


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: none


EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an unsual but normal bedside routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Generous beta may be correlated with patient's clinical history and exposure to medications.  The
absence of an alpha rhythm is not strictly speaking pathological, particularly if there are no other
abnormal findings.


This EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.  Given the limitations, please request
an EEG in the lab of 20-60 minutes in duration
