HISTORY:

67 y.o. female with a history of

seizures, now presents for a follow-up.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


rivaroxaban (XARELTO) 20 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily (with meals).

PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) 30 mg tablet, 15 mg in AM and 30 mg in PM


x5 days, then 30 mg qhs

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 3 tablets by mouth 2

times daily.


lacosamide (VIMPAT) 100 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every

12 hours.

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth every


4 hours as needed.




donepezil (ARICEPT) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth nightly.

CRESTOR 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.


memantine (NAMENDA) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.

ergocalciferol, Vitamin D2, 50,000 unit Capsule, Take 50,000


Units by mouth once a week.

losartan-hydrochlorothiazide (HYZAAR) 50-12.5 mg per tablet, Take

1 tablet by mouth daily.

calcium-vitamin D (HI-CAL PLUS VIT D) 500 mg(1,250mg) -200 unit


per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).

ASPIRIN (ASPIR-81 PO), Take 81 mg by mouth daily.


alendronate (FOSAMAX) 70 mg tablet, Take 70 mg by mouth every 7

days.

hydrochlorothiazide (HYDRODIURIL) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by

mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

Patient is mostly drowsy and asleep throughout the recording.


During brief periods of arousal, the background consists of a

mixture of excess beta and polymorphic theta activity with poor

AP gradient.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Intermittent polymorphic theta and delta activity is captured

over the right anterior temporal region.  On a single occasion, a

brief run of rhythmic delta activity is seen over the right


anterior temporal region.

Rare polymorphic delta activity is captured over the left


anterior temporal region.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional

abnormalities.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 65 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity) - once -

right anterior temporal


Focal slowing - intermittent - moderate - right anterior temporal

Focal slowing - rare - moderate - left anterior temporal


Diffuse slowing - mild

Beta - excess



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an ABNORMAL briefly awake and mostly asleep 1 hour EEG

due to intermittent right anterior temporal focal slowing, a


single run of rhythmic right anterior temporal focal slowing

(TIRDA), rare moderate left anterior temporal and mild diffuse


slowing.

Focal slowing  is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which

is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin,

right >>left.


TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity) is

considered equivalent to an epileptiform discharge and indicates


a potentially epileptogenic focus over the right anterior

temporal region..

Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral

dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but in this case


could be related to the excessively drowsy patient.

Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication


effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.


No events of facial twitches were reported.

