HISTORY:

50 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy referred

for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


Seizure semiology:

1.   No warning. Stares with some odd breathing (like snoring).

Lasts ~ 1-2 min. Aware afterwards that he had a sz. Tired and


dizzy afterwards. Current frequency: 3 times per month. Frequency

increasing. More so in the morning. Onset around 2003

2.   Convulsions. Last event: ~2007 - in the setting of trying to


change the

MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


losartan (COZAAR) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth 2 times

daily.

hydrochlorothiazide (HYDRODIURIL) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by


mouth daily.




hydralazine (APRESOLINE) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth 3

times daily.


carvedilol (COREG) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth 2 times

daily (with meals).


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.

NIFEDIPINE PO, Take  by mouth.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2

times daily.


phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 4 capsules by mouth

at bedtime.


LORazepam (ATIVAN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet ~30-60 minutes

prior to the scan. May take another tablet right before the scan.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG , HV and

photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8.7

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. POSTS.  The patient has many spontaneous arousals


from sleep.

Slow wave sleep was not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric

background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no


clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal 1 hour awake and asleep routine EEG.


A normal  EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.
