HISTORY:
84 y.o. female with a history of transient generalized shaking and
decreased responsiveness for 2 minutes with bowel incontinence and rapid recovery of sensorium.
She additionally has been having shaking spells without loss of consciousness. She was referred for
routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 6 hours as needed for
Pain. Not in blister pack


amLODIPine (NORVASC) 5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


losartan (COZAAR) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

thiamine (VITAMIN B-1) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

senna (SENOKOT) 8.6 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


QUEtiapine (SEROQUEL) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.





ketoconazole (NIZORAL) 2 % cream, Apply to skin folds (under breast, stomach and inner thighs) in
the evening


mometasone (ELOCON) 0.1 % ointment, Apply to back BID x 4 weeks then PRN for severe flare

desonide (DESOWEN) 0.05 % ointment, Apply to skin folds (under breast, stomach, and inner thigh)
BID x 4 weeks then PRN severe flare


calcipotriene (DOVONEX) 0.005 % cream, Apply to all affected areas including back, and skin folds
in the morning


bacitracin-polymyxin b (POLYSPORIN) ointment, Apply to affected area twice daily

carvedilol (COREG) 12.5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).


Multivitamin,Tx-Iron-Minerals (THERAPEUTIC MULTIVITAMIN-MINERALS) Tablet, Take 1 tablet by
mouth daily.

Simethicone 125 mg Capsule, Take every 6 hours as needed.


VITAMIN B-1 50 mg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth once daily

lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 25 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth daily. One tablet in evening for 1
week, then two at bed



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically suboptimal
record secondary to muscle artifact and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is notable for excessive muscle artifact and eye blink artifact during much of
the tracing. Video recording also demonstrated that the patient was opening and closing her mouth
frequently. Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric low voltage 8-9 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Low amplitude fairly generalized
beta activity was seen as well, maximum over frontocentral temporal regions.





During drowsiness, attenuation of amplitude and diffuse background slowing are seen.


Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


Probably normal awake and drowsy one hour EEG.  As noted, the tracing was degraded by eye blink,
muscle and movement artifact. There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. If clinically indicated,
more prolonged or ambulatory EEG monitoring may provide additional helpful clinical information.
