HISTORY:

61 y.o. male with a history of left temporal glioma and seizures (feeling off,
staring, unresponsive to verbal stimulation) referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) 100 mg tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth at bedtime.

sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim (BACTRIM DS) 800-160 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth three
times a week. Monday - Wednesday - Friday


TEMOZOLOMIDE (TEMODAR PO), Take  by mouth. Takes daily for five days every 28 days.


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:






A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha, beta, and excess delta frequencies, with fragments of an irregular but symmetric and reactive
8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present but suboptimal.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Continuous left temporal focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left temporal lateralized periodic discharges at 1 Hz for <15 sec
(lateralized periodic discharges, LPDs)


2. Occasional left occipital (O1 max) sharp waves



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


A single electrographic seizure is captured.

Clinical: no definite correlate except for some lip smacking at study start.

EEG: onset of left fronto-temporal (F7) rhythmic theta that slows to delta and spreads to the left
parasagittal chain, with admixed spikes distributed broadly over the left hemisphere


EKG: no change in heart rate




HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Continuous left temporal focal slowing


3. Occasional left temporal lateralized periodic discharges

4. Occasional left occipital (O1 max) sharp waves


5. A single left fronto-temporal (F7 max) electrographic seizure



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are diagnostic for localization related epilepsy of left fronto-temporal origin, with
additional evidence for epileptogenic potential of left occipital origin.



The patient had left the laboratory by the time the study was read.  Attempts were made to reach
him.  His treating neurologist was notified.
