HISTORY:

58 y.o. male with a history of CVA in 2008 with residual R hemiparesis and
aphasia, as well as seizures, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 3 capsules by mouth nightly.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous and reactive but asymmetric.





The right hemisphere consists of a fairly organized mixture of alpha, beta, and excess theta, with a
reactive posterior dominant rhythm of 9 Hz.


The left hemisphere consists of a disorganized mixture of theta and delta, without a clear posterior
dominant rhythm.



Drowsiness and sleep are characterized by further slowing of the background. In sleep, vertex waves,
K complexes, and spindles are seen only on the right.



Mild generalized slowing is present.


Continuous left hemispheric polymorphic slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) left anterior temporal (T1/F7 max > T3) spikes


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces photic
driving over the right hemisphere only.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization


2. Continuous left hemispheric polymorphic slowing, with lack of posterior dominant rhythm, sleep
transients, and photic driving response on left

3. Frequent left anterior temporal spikes






CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of a potentially epileptogenic focus over the left anterior
temporal region.


There is additional evidence for left hemispheric dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, as well as
mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
