HISTORY:


22 y.o. female with a history of seizure following Tramadol ingestion, Seizures 3/16
to late Oct 2016 referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.

Fibromyalgia, LBP


MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 3 times daily.


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 250 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is somewhat disorganized but relatively symmetric, reactive, and consists of a
mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-
to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.7 Hertz posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Lambda was seen There
are occasional bursts of irregular slowing noted from either hemisphere.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


Sleep is characterized by synchronous and symmetric sleep transients, including vertex waves, sleep
spindles,POSTS and K complexes. Sleep is well organized.Slow wave sleep is not captured.


Mild generalized slowing is present only in wakefulness .  Non sustained  focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): wicket,



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Produced a somewhat irregular bilateral slowing and a handful of bursts of shifting
slowing



Photic Stimulation: Elicits minimal driving


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an a normal awake and asleep 1 hour  EEG.

1. Abnormal background in wakefulness with excessive theta and shifting slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION: No epileptiform abnormalities were identified.  The background slowing
may be correlated with this patient's clinical history and use of other medications for pain
management.

If further information is needed, to identify epileptiform activity, a repeat sleep deprived EEG may be
of value
