DATE OF STUDY: 01/13/17

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep





HISTORY:

 a 16 y.o. male found wandering in the emergency room, confused, with elevated
blood pressure, referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Facility-Administered Medications:

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units

aspirin chewable tablet 81 mg

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 40 mg


cyanocobalamin tablet 1,000 mcg

labetalol (NORMODYNE) tablet 100 mg

labetalol (NORMODYNE) tablet 200 mg







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence asymmetric posterior dominant rhythm
consisting of fairly well-developed 25-35 uV 8 Hertz rhythmic activity on the right and less well-
developed 6-8 Hz activity posteriorly on the left. Low amplitude bilateral frontocentral beta activity is
seen. Throughout the record, irregular low to medium voltage 1.5-4 Hz slowing is seen over the left
hemisphere, predominantly over frontal, temporal and central regions.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse left greater than right hemispheric background slowing are seen.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left temporal sharp waves are seen at T3-T5, primarily noted during
drowsiness or sleep.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous left hemispheric slowing and asymmetric posterior dominant rhythm which is less well-
developed on the left.


2. Infrequent left temporal sharp waves during drowsiness and sleep.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of a left hemispheric functional disturbance with mild irritative
discharges in the temporal region. Additional neurologic investigation is warranted to evaluate for
underlying left hemispheric structural pathology. If the patient is suspected of having seizures, the
above changes would support the possibility of localization related seizures arising in the left
hemisphere.























































