HISTORY:

47 y.o. left handed male with a history of seizures since the age of 10 (last: 1 month
ago, described as grand mal seizure), referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: Tegretol, Phenobarbital



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.






During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves and
K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Abundant left temporal polymorphic slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Abundant (>1/10s) left anterior temporal (T1/F7 > T3) sharp-and-wave discharges that at times
reflect over the right temporal region (T2 max). No independent right temporal sharp waves are seen.
In sleep the left anterior temporal sharp waves develop a frontal field, including Fp1 and F3, and
occasionally occur periodically at 1 Hz for runs ~5 seconds.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Abundant left temporal polymorphic slowing

2. Abundant left anterior temporal sharp-and-wave discharges that occasionally become periodic at 1
Hz in sleep for runs ~5 seconds.






CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of left anterior temporal highly epileptogenic potentials
superimposed on left temporal cerebral dysfunction.



The patient had left the premises by the time the study was read; administrative staff was contacted
to ensure close follow up was arranged.
