HISTORY:

67 y.o. male with a history of HTN, stroke

(2002), post-stroke epilepsy, headache, DM, and dementia referred


for routine EEG for characterization of seizures. Patient states

that last seizure was many years ago.



MEDICATIONS: Vimpat, Keppra


SEDATION: None listed



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm


(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.


Frequent subtle left temporal polymorphic slowing is present. At

times this focal slowing is sharply contoured.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Frequent subtle left temporal polymorphic slowing, at times

focal slowing is sharply contoured




CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of left temporal

dysfunction.
