HISTORY:

33 y.o. male with a history of seizures up till age 21 ("shaking spells" and "staring
spells," previously on Dilantin but stopped at age 21 after seizure free) referred for routine EEG for
evaluation of paroxysmal events: he has now had 2 episodes of LOC in setting of vagal activity, with
subsequent right hemiparesis.




MEDICATIONS: midazolam, famotidine



SEDATION: meds as above



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically difficult record;
tech noted that she could not get impedances <5 kOhm despite best efforts, and there was frequent
artifact affecting the O1 and O2 leads. The study included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The study consists of mostly sleep.



During brief periods of wakefulness, the background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of mostly low
voltage fast frequencies, which attenuate symmetrically with eye opening. Posterior dominant rhythm
consists of low voltage fast frequencies.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal, albeit technically limited, awake and mostly asleep/drowsy routine EEG.  There are
no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected. A background consisting of low voltage fast
frequencies can be normal variant in the adult population.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
