HISTORY:

18 y.o. female with a history of nocturnal convulsions.



MEDICATIONS:

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:




The background consists of a 9 Hz moderate amplitude alpha activity posteriorly, weak AP (anterior-
to-posterior) gradient, and mild excess of diffuse polymorphic theta activity





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.






EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

One definite low amplitude generalized occipitally predominant spike with aftergoing slow wave is
captured.  Several other well defined similar spikes with aftergoing slow waves are captured.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 80 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep 30 minute EEG due to at least one generalized occipitally
predominant spike and wave complex.  Additionally, there is mild diffuse slowing and
disorganization.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:




In the proper clinical context, this finding suggests generalized type of epilepsy.



Mild diffuse slowing and disorganization are indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific, but in this patient could be related to excessive fatigue since the patient
very rapidly transitions from wakefulness to sleep.
