HISTORY:

18 y.o. female with a history of new types of

events concerning for seizures.  Psychiatric disorder.  Now has


staring spells and convulsions.  Reduced evaluated at Hershey

Medical Center for nonepileptic seizures



MEDICATIONS:

Keppra

Trazodone, Klonopin, Abilify, Clonodine



TECHNIQUE:

Continuous Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG)


was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, seizure




and spike detection software.  Technical staff was available in

the unit to monitor events.


-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 1 (03/30/2015 15:00 - 3/31/2016, 06:00)


AEDs: LEV



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is  symmetric and reaches


9 Hz. There is mild excess theta


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured..



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: No tests of reactivity (visual, auditory,

tactile, or painful stimuli) are performed.


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not


performed.


SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are multiple  clinical  events captured during this study.


They are similar to the initial event captured in the baseline

1. 18:45 PM  Not responsive to nurse, staring blankly. Not


talking.  Normal awake pattern

2. 19:38  PM  Not verbally responsive, stares, does the opposite


commands.



Additionally, the staff noted that the patient had frequent odd

behavior.



EKG: A single lead captured HR 72 BPM


-----------------------------------------------------------------

DAY2 (03/31/2015 15:00 - 4/01/2016, 10:25)



AEDs: No seizure medications.  Keppra was held


INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:


The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is  symmetric and reaches

9 Hz. There is mild excess theta



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured..



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: .



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation was performed.  It

elicits rhythmic, bilateral, normal slowing- done at 10 AM and

5:18 PM.  She was reluctant to cooperate the second time



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation was


performed.  It elicits normal, subtle photic driving  10 AM and

5:27 PM



SEIZURES/EVENTS:


There are multiple  clinical  events captured during this study.

They are similar to the initial event captured in the baseline


1. 10:42 AM feels sluggish, dizzy then not responsive   to nurse,

staring blankly. Not

talking.  Late in the event, with a normal awake pattern, the

patient was incontinent .Normal awake pattern  throughout this 7


minute event

2.   10:56 AM   Not verbally responsive, stares, does the


opposite

commands.  Noted to have tremulousness of the legs.  Normal awake

EEG pattern with heart rate 90 bpm

3. 18:11 reports that she feels unwell, than stares and is


unresponsive.  EEG demonstrates normal awake pattern with heart

rate 104 bpm.  The patient then leans forward, drops out of the


chair and disconnect herself from the EEG leads.  The nurses pick

her up, she sits up at the side of the bed under her own motor

control doesn't really cooperate or speak but uses purposeful

movements to get back into bed.  The EEG returns to good quality


at 18:17 with a normal awake pattern, heart rate of 104 and

frequent eye blink.  The patient remains behaviorally slow and


sluggish.  Later she begins to cry

4. 19:13: Episode of trembling of left hand.  Right hand is

clenched and legs demonstrate alternating motor behavior.

Duration one minute 19 seconds EEG demonstrates normal awake


pattern.  No postictal features followed this event



Additionally, the staff noted that the patient had frequent odd

behavior throughout the today recording.


EKG: A single lead captured HR 90-108 BPM




Impression and Clinical Correlation for two day continuous video


EEG monitoring:

This patient experienced multiple events, and similar to those


described in her outside records.  The behaviors recorded include

staring spells and larger motor behaviors. They were not


associated with any epileptiform features.  In addition, the

patient was consolable during the events.  As discussed with the

patient, these appear to be stress length behaviors, not

epileptic seizures.



No epileptiform features were identified.


No electrographic seizures were recorded


The patient seizure medication was not resumed as she has

previously made a suicide attempt with the seizure medicine.

