HISTORY:

45 y.o. female with a history of prior R MCA

CVA, recurrent L arm tingling  referred for routine EEG for


evaluation of paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

clopidogrel (PLAVIX) 75 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2


times daily.

liraglutide 0.6 mg/0.1 mL (18 mg/3 mL) Pen Injector, Inject 1.2

mg into the skin daily.


levalbuterol (XOPENEX) 1.25 mg/0.5 mL nebulizer solution, Take

0.5 mLs by nebulization every 4 hours as needed for Wheezing.

Please use instead of regular albuterol due to side effects


ondansetron (ZOFRAN-ODT) 8 mg disintegrating tablet, Take 1




tablet by mouth every 8 hours as needed for Nausea.

pantoprazole (PROTONIX) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth


daily.

polyethylene glycol (GLYCOLAX) 17 gram packet, Take 17 g by mouth


daily.

albuterol (PROVENTIL) 2.5 mg /3 mL (0.083 %) nebulizer solution,

Take 2.5 mg by nebulization every 4 hours as needed for Wheezing.

fluticasone-salmeterol (ADVAIR) 500-50 mcg/dose diskus inhaler,


Inhale 1 puff into the lungs 2 times daily.

potassium chloride (K-DUR,KLOR-CON) 20 mEq tablet, Take 20 mEq by


mouth daily.

metformin (FORTAMET) 500 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

daily (with lunch).

lamotrigine (LAMICTAL XR) 300 mg Tablet Extended Rel 24 hr (b),


Take 300 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

metFORMIN (GLUCOPHAGE) 500 mg tablet, Take 1,000 mg by mouth 2


times daily (with meals).

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.

montelukast (SINGULAIR) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth

nightly.


docusate sodium (COLACE) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 2

times daily.


gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3

times daily.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation. Patient is very sleepy.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a


symmetric and reactive 9.2 Hertz 35 uV posterior dominant rhythm

(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present. Lamba is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen. Focal features of drowsiness include

drop out of faster frequency activity on the right before the

left.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with POSTS,

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.

R focal slowing is present.  See above.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces  Scant symmetric photic driving,

which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Subtle R temporal focal slowing noted only in drowsiness.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are frequently found in after a stroke. The focal

slowing seems to have improved in comparison to Jan 2015. This is

the second EEG without sharp waves.  Patient is very drowsy.
