HISTORY:

44 y.o. female with a history of localization related epilepsy, with possible
complex seizure today in office, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take  by mouth. 1 QAM 2 q PM

divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 125 mg EC tablet, 3am 4hs


clindamycin (CLEOCIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily for 7 days.

ergocalciferol, Vitamin D2, (VITAMIN D) 50,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth every 7 days.

nicotine polacrilex (NICORELIEF) 2 mg lozenge, Place 1 lozenge inside cheek as needed for
Smoking cessation.


chlorhexidine (PERIDEX) 0.12 % solution,


ergocalciferol, vitamin D2, 2,000 unit Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.



SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 11-12 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Occasional rhythmic temporal slowing is present, as noted below.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Very abundant (3-4/10s) left anterior temporal (T1>F7/T3) spike-and-wave complexes


2. Occasional runs of left temporal rhythmic delta slowing (2.5 Hz) for <5 seconds

3. Occasional runs of right temporal rhythmic delta slowing (2.5 Hz) for <3 seconds



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake only 1-hour EEG due to:


1. Very abundant (3-4/10s) left anterior temporal (T1>F7/T3) spike-and-wave complexes

2. Occasional runs of left temporal rhythmic delta slowing (2.5 Hz) for <5 seconds


3. Occasional runs of right temporal rhythmic delta slowing (2.5 Hz) for <3 seconds


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of bitemporal, left > right potentially epileptogenic foci.
Rhythmic temporal slowing (formerly known as "TIRDA," temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity)
is a marker of temporal lobe epileptogenicity.



Following this study the patient was offered, and agreed, to long term monitoring.
