HISTORY: 31 y.o. female with a history of HIV, presenting with likely seizure and suspected meningitis. Now with confusion and ocular bobbing referred for long term video EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events and change in mental status.  MEDICATIONS: Not provided  SEDATION: Ativan   TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (4/21/2016, 15:26 - 4/22/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND: The background is continuous, symmetric, and reactive. The waking background consists of mostly alpha and excess beta with excess underlying delta frequencies. There are fragments of an irregular posterior dominant rhythm of 10 Hz. There is moderate generalized slowing. There is no focal slowing.  Drowsiness and sleep are characterized by attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, with further background slowing that is at times quasi-rhythmic. Sleep transients are not captured.  On 4/22/2016 ~04:30, the pattern abruptly becomes one of burst suppression.  Bursts consist of 2-4 seconds of theta, alpha, and beta.  The background gradually becomes more continuous by the morning.  The treating team confirms that Propofol was started at this time.   PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  None  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 140s-150s  DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to: 1. Moderate generalized slowing, at times quasi-rhythmic, and suboptimal organization, abruptly becoming burst suppression, likely correlating with Propofol administration 2. Tachycardia noted on a single EKG lead  These findings are consistent with moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Quasi-rhythmic diffuse slowing is a nonspecific but pathologic finding that is most commonly associated with a toxic-metabolic state (and in this case, possibly the patient's infection), but can also be seen with deep structural lesions or increased intracranial pressure - clinical correlation is advised.   Further slowing to burst suppression pattern is consistent with Propofol administration.  Excess beta may be seen in the setting of a medication effect such as benzodiazepines. Tachycardia is noted on a single EKG lead.  -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 2 (4/22/2016, 06:00 - 4/22/2016, 15:34)  BACKGROUND: Discontinuous and nonreactive, with 5-second periods of diffuse suppression alternating with 4-6 second bursts of sharply contoured theta, alpha, and beta.  GENERALIZED SLOWING: severe  FOCAL SLOWING: None  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Rare sharply contoured beta activity is seen over F3, not clearly epileptiform  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single EKG lead was contaminated by artifact   DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to: 1. Discontinuous, nonreactive background  These findings are consistent with severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which may at least in part be attributable to a medication effect.  -----------------------------------------------------------------  FINAL IMPRESSION:  This is abnormal video EEG due to:  1. Moderate generalized slowing, at times quasi-rhythmic, and suboptimal organization, abruptly becoming burst suppression on 4/22/2016 04:30, likely correlating with Propofol administration 2. Tachycardia noted on a single EKG lead on day 1 (unreadable due to suboptimal recording on day 2)   FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings are consistent with moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Quasi-rhythmic diffuse slowing is a nonspecific but pathologic finding that is most commonly associated with a toxic-metabolic state (and in this case, possibly the patient's infection), but can also be seen with deep structural lesions or increased intracranial pressure - clinical correlation is advised.   Further slowing to burst suppression pattern on 4/22/2016 04:30 is consistent with Propofol administration.  Excess beta may be seen in the setting of a medication effect such as benzodiazepines.  Tachycardia is noted on a single EKG lead on day 1 (unreadable due to suboptimal recording on day 2). 
