DATE OF STUDY: 01/09/17

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep




HISTORY:

a 53 y.o. male with a history of abrupt onset dystonia of the neck, head neck pain
yesterday, right motor discomfort.  Received 50 mg of Benadryl in the emergency room but symptoms
recurred and was treated with Ativan referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg


diphenhydrAMINE (BENADRYL) injection 25 mg

LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg

TECHNIQUE:


A STAT ED Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.
Various artifacts were identified including eye movement artifact





BP 122/83  Pulse 98  Resp 18  Ht 5' 9



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  Excess beta
is noted in wakefulness.  Excess beta is also noted intermittently




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




Mild generalized slowing is present.

No sustained focal slowing is present.  There is some shifting slowing noted on the right in this
challenging emergency room record



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Occasional wicket waves are noted during drowsiness over the temporal  regions



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Verbal stimulation produces an arousal

EVENTS: The previously described involuntary movements were not identified, the patient does
seem to have some contractures in the neck muscles, visible on the video.  These are not associated
with changes in the EEG pattern. There are  no other clinical or electrographic events captured
during this study.




HEART RATE:


A heart rate of  96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Excess beta and theta









CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings be due to use of medications to treat the dystonia.  There
is questionable focality in this bedside record, recorded any challenging environment.  If there is any
question about underlying focal features, the EEG may be repeated in the EEG lab for a better
quality study







































































