HISTORY:

83 y.o. male with a history of sepsis and hypoxic respiratory failure, who had an
episode of restlessness, then biting on ET tube, then becoming tachycardic on 11/14, referred for
routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS: neurontin, procardia, cozaar, levemir, vasopressin, levophed, zosyn, precedex



SEDATION: received Ativan 2 mg and Fentanyl 50 mcg 1 hr prior to study


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The background is continuous and symmetric but nonreactive and consists of disorganized theta and
delta with admixed faster frequencies. At times theta and delta appear sharply contoured but are not
clearly epileptiform.




There is no clear reactivity, variability, or state change.



Severe generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional right parietal (P4>C4/O2 max) sharp waves, at times with spread to the left parietal
region (P3 max). Left parietal sharp waves do not appear independently.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm, at times irregular, is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal coma study bedside portable EEG due to:

1. Occasional right parietal sharp waves

2. Severe generalized slowing with background disorganization and lack of reactivity


3. Intermittently irregular heart rate


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of a potentially epileptogenic focus in the right parietal region.
Additionally, the background demonstrates severe diffuse dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific but may at least in part be associated with sedating medications.


There were no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.


An intermittently irregular heart rate is captured on a single EKG lead.
