HISTORY:

a 85 y.o. male with a history of CVA with residual

left sided weakness, HTN, and dementia who presented with altered


mental status and seizure is referred for routine EEG for

characterization of seizures and assessment of mental status

change.



MEDICATIONS: Atorvastatin, rivastigmine, Keppra



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The study consists of mostly sleep.  Sleep is characterized by

normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex


waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not

captured.


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 7-8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and further

diffuse background slowing are seen.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Occasional right temporal polymorphic slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


An irregular heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG

lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing


2. Occasional right temporal polymorphic slowing is present

3. Irregular heart beat seen on single EKG lead


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of right temporal

dysfunction superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


An irregular heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG

lead.
