HISTORY:

38 y.o. female with a history of possible seizure during sleep, most recently 1 week
ago,  referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

mometasone-formoterol (DULERA) 200-5 mcg/actuation HFA Aerosol Inhaler, Inhale  into the lungs 2
times daily.


albuterol (PROAIR HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs every 6 hours as
needed for Wheezing.


albuterol sulfate 90 mcg/actuation Aerosol Powdr Breath Activated, Inhale 180 mcg into the lungs
every 4 hours.


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 25 mg tablet, Wk 1: 25 qhs; Wk 2: 25 q12h; Wk 3: 25 AM, 50 mg in PM; Wk
4: 50 mg q12h; Wk 5: 50 AM, 75 PM, Wk 6: 75 q12h, Wk 7: 75 AM, 100 PM, Wk 8:100q2h

hydrochlorothiazide (HYDRODIURIL) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth daily.


LORazepam (ATIVAN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg 10 min before MRI. If needed, may repeat once.





No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The resting background consists of a large amount of generalized low amplitude 18-25 Hz activity
along with large amount of widespread low to medium amplitude muscle artifact. A small amount of
poorly sustained low voltage 10 Hz rhythmic activity was seen posteriorly.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.




EVENTS:




There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
