DATE OF STUDY: 06/28/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy




HISTORY:

a 47 y.o. male with a history of episodic tingling in hands and head (last 1 mo
ago, but occur "not often"), referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS: pt unable to recall



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing. Patient notes that his hands feel numb after
hyperventilation.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  The patient noted that his hands felt numb after
hyperventilation; no EEG correlate other than mild diffuse background slowing (an expected finding
after hyperventilation) was seen.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.

The patient noted that his hands felt numb after hyperventilation; no EEG correlate other than mild
diffuse background slowing (an expected finding after hyperventilation) was seen.




A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.

If clinically warranted, a recording with sleep may be helpful.





Attending Epileptologist: 

I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.







































































