HISTORY:

25 y.o. male with a history of a syncope

vs seizure in 6/15 referred for routine EEG for evaluation of


paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS: none



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.



Drowsiness and sleep are not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

A single phase-reversing sharply contoured discharge followed by


a slow wave is noted over the left anterior temporal region with

little/no field (T1 max). This is felt most likely to represent


an artifact.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric

background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 114 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION / CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an essentially normal awake only  routine EEG.  There are

no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.


The single discharge noted above is of question, but felt most

likely to represent artifact.

Tachycardia is noted on a single EKG lead.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.

If clinically warranted, a repeat recording with sleep may be


helpful.
