HISTORY:

45 y.o. male with a history of new onset seizures referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 3 capsules by mouth nightly for 360 days.

pravastatin (PRAVACHOL) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


enalapril (VASOTEC) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

insulin NPH-insulin regular (HUMULIN 70/30) 100 unit/mL (70-30) injection, Inject subcutaneously 40
units in the am and 35 units in the pm


triamterene-hydrochlorothiazide (DYAZIDE) 37.5-25 mg per capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth every
morning.


Blood Sugar Diagnostic (BLOOD GLUCOSE TEST) Strip, 1 Container by Misc.(Non-Drug; Combo
Route) route 4 times daily.


Alcohol Swabs Pads, Medicated, Apply 1 Container topically 4 times daily.

lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily for 360 days.




No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:

A 1 hour Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International
10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically
satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 8 Hertz, 30 microvolt posterior dominant rhythm (PDR),
which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes.  POSTS were also seen. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Very mild generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


Wicket was present


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
very mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.





EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is a very mildly abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or
electrographic events reported or detected.


1. Very mild background slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

The background slowing described above has been previously described. This is at least the third
EEG, including ambulatory monitoring which did not identify epileptiform activity.


This one hour EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.

No epileptiform features were seen.
