HISTORY:

30 y.o. male with a history of diabetes,

TBI, post concussive syndrome referred for routine EEG for


evaluation of paroxysmal events. MVA Aug 2015; Prior abnormal EEG

in October 2015.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

insulin lispro (HUMALOG) 100 unit/mL injection, Inject  into the


skin 3 times daily (before meals).

insulin detemir (LEVEMIR) 100 unit/mL injection, Inject  into the

skin nightly.


amitriptyline (ELAVIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

nightly.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 20 minute digital video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG)

was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and

photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The patient is asleep throughout most of the EEG.

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.


Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.5

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was  Captured and includes 1-2 Hz


frontal delta > 70 uV,  SWS was not sustained, but recorded at

the end of the record.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds but the patient fell asleep.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG.  There are no


clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG.  However, the

patient is very drowsy and it is unusual to capture SWS in a 20


minute EEG. The previously identified Left temporal focal slowing

was not seen today.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.
