HISTORY: 87 y.o. male with a history of seizures and stroke, now presents with focal status epilepticus.  

MEDICATIONS: Current Outpatient Prescriptions: rosuvastatin (CRESTOR) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily. valsartan-hydrochlorothiazide (DIOVAN-HCT) 160-12.5 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take  by mouth 2 times daily. aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.  No current facility-administered medications for this visit.   

SEDATION: None  

TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   

DAY 1  

BACKGROUND: The record consists of fairly organized mixture of alpha, beta, and delta. There is no definite posterior dominant rhythm. There is continuous left hemispheric polymorphic slowing.      EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: 1. Interictally there are left centro-temporal (T3>C3 max) sharply contoured delta discharges, frequently occurring at 1 Hz for runs up to 6 seconds (PLEDS / LPDs / periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges). At times this pattern more closely resembles rhythmic delta activity (RDA) over the same region.  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.   EVENTS: Multiple seizures are detected electrographically during this study. Their frequency ranges from none in ~ 1 hour to nearly continuous seizures.  There is no clear clinical correlate.  Electrographically,  They start with sharply contoured rhythmic delta at 3.5-4 Hz, maximal over the left centro-temporal region (T3>C3), but with broad field involving the left hemisphere. Ictal activity evolves by slowing in frequency to 3 Hz, increasing or decreasing in amplitude, becoming more sharply contoured, and spreading to reflect over right hemisphere before decreasing in amplitude and increasing to theta activity with admixed spikes.    IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal continuous video EEG monitoring, totaling ~ 7.5 hours of data, due to 1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization 2. Continuous left hemispheric polymorphic slowing 3. Left centro-temporal periodic discharges and rhythmic delta activity 4. Intermittent electroclinical seizures that broadly involve the left hemisphere but appear to evolve best over the left centro-temporal region  CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are diagnostic for localization related epilepsy of left centro-temporal origin and indicate ongoing seizures, status epilepticus. There is additionally evidence for left hemispheric dysfunction superimposed on mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which may be structural or physiologic in etiology. These findings were discussed with the treating team.  
