HISTORY:

19 y.o. male with a history asthma and seizures for 2 years. The patient's last
seizure was one month ago and is described as generalized shaking and LOC, lasting about 10 mins.
After the patient will vomit and feels very drowsy. He is referred for routine EEG for characterization
of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: Topamax, Keppra



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:








The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Rapid eye movement sleep is captured briefly.




No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is awake and asleep routine EEG is remarkable for capturing REM sleep.

Otherwise, the background is normal and there are no epileptiform discharges.  There are no clinical
or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:




This is awake and asleep routine EEG is remarkable for capturing REM sleep.  This finding may be
indicative of sleep deprivation or a primary sleep disorder.  If clinically indicated, a sleep study may
be of benefit.


Otherwise, the background is normal and there are no epileptiform discharges.  There are no clinical
or electrographic events reported or detected.


This EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
