HISTORY:

39 y.o. male with a history of nocturnal

convulsions since childhood, now with wake seizures referred for


routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Keppra




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically challenging record and


included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation. The




patient had

placement.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hz


Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening. Lateral rectus spikes (eye


movement ) were noted.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen. There are brief high amplitude

frontal delta noted in drowsiness.  These are sharply contoured




Sleep is not sustained.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


See above, frontal delta



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: produces bursts of frontal slowing.  Eye

movement artifact is seen.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a challenging  awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are


no definite sharps or spikes  reported or detected. Frontal delta

in drowsiness is a normal finding.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG. There are no

definite sharps or spikes  reported or detected.  However, given


the artifacts, frontal sharps or spikes can be under recognized.

Please consider a repeat EEG when convenient to the patient's

hair style.

This EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.

