HISTORY:

90 y.o. female referred for routine EEG

after being found down, presenting with altered mental status and


right-sided weakness.


MEDICATIONS:


Keppra, Ceftriaxone




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) recording using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes was performed

utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory


record and included a single channel of EKG.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is asymmetric and reactive.  The right side

is composed of a well-organized mixture of alpha and beta


frequencies, with a 7-Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  The left

side is composed of a poorly organized mixture of delta, with

attenuation of faster frequencies.



During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior

dominant rhythm, and further background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured.


Mild generalized slowing is present.


There is continuous polymorphic left hemispheric focal slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Not performed



Photic Stimulation: Not performed



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


Occasional PVCs are noted.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake-and-drowsy routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing

2. Continuous polymorphic left hemispheric slowing and


attenuation of faster frequencies

3. Of note, occasional PVCs are captured on a single EKG lead.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of left hemispheric

dysfunction superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


There were no clinical or electrographic events reported or

detected.  If clinically indicated, a follow up or prolonged

study may be of benefit to reassess left hemispheric function.

