HISTORY:

50 y.o. female with a history of migraine headache, OSA and
involuntary movements in sleep referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


ALBUTEROL IN, Inhale  into the lungs.

ranitidine (ZANTAC) 300 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.

oxybutynin (DITROPAN) 5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily.


omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain.

fluticasone (FLONASE) 50 mcg/actuation nasal spray, 2 sprays by Each Nare route daily.


ferrous sulfate 325 mg (65 mg iron) tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily (with breakfast).

enalapril (VASOTEC) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily as needed for
Muscle spasms.


cyanocobalamin (VITAMIN B-12) 1,000 mcg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.




albuterol (PROVENTIL HFA;VENTOLIN HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs
every 6 hours as needed for Wheezing for up to 360 days.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None

TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz 20 uV  posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Alpha squeak was noted. Wakefulness is somewhat low
voltage.  Mu was seen.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles, POSTS and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: produces an increase in the background.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding. There is supraharmonic driving and subharmonic
driving.





EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

Mu, low voltage, alpha squeak and supraharmonic driving are all normal findings.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
