HISTORY:

55 y.o. male with a history stroke, seizures and right-sided numbness of referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

clopidogrel (PLAVIX) 75 mg tablet, Take 75 mg by mouth daily.

albuterol (PROVENTIL HFA;VENTOLIN HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs
every 6 hours as needed for Wheezing.


NIFEdipine (NIFEDIAC CC) 30 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 30 mg by mouth daily.


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

escitalopram oxalate (LEXAPRO) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

LORazepam (ATIVAN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Anxiety.


aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.

nicotine (NICODERM CQ) 14 mg/24 hr, Place 1 patch onto the skin every 24 hours.

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 300 mg by mouth 3 times daily.




mirtazapine (REMERON) 30 mg tablet, Take 30 mg by mouth nightly.

rosuvastatin (CRESTOR) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HVand photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Alpha squeak, a normal finding was identified




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes.  Abundant POSTS were noted Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

wicket



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal  1 hour awake and asleep routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
