HISTORY:

57 y.o. male with a history of right temporal lobe hemorrhage and resultant focal
epilepsy, noncompliant with home AEDs (reportedly taking Keppra 1000 mg daily instead of q12h),
presenting with multiple convulsions and intubated, referred for routine EEG for management of
seizure exacerbation.  Stat bedside EEG requested as patient was quite aggressive and having
intermittent desaturation.





MEDICATIONS:

Keppra 1500 mg q12h


Ativan

Versed



SEDATION: as above, initially on propofol drip


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND, EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY, EVENTS:


The record opens to a symmetric but disorganized mix of predominantly alpha and beta with
admixed theta. Technician does not stimulate patient as he is overly aggressive.  There is no clear
reactivity.


There are continuous left fronto-temporal (F7 max) sharp waves, often reflecting over the right
temporal region, periodic at 1 Hz (lateralized periodic discharges, LPDs). These frequently dissolve
into semi-rhythmic theta with admixed fast frequencies without definite evolution, for up to 13 sec at
a time. Occasionally these evolve into electrographic seizures.  There is no associated clinical
correlation.



There are very frequent additional runs of semi-rhythmic right fronto-temporal (F8/T4 max) sharply
contoured theta with admixed faster frequencies, for up to 30 seconds, at times evolving into
electrographic seizures.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal asleep only routine EEG due to:

1. Severe generalized slowing, disorganization, with lack of clear reactivity

2. Continuous left temporal periodic discharges, occasionally evolving into left temporal
electrographic seizures


3. Very frequent right temporal runs of semirhythmic theta, at times evolving into right temporal
electrographic seizures



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are diagnostic for bi-temporal independent epilepsy with ongoing electrographic
seizures of both independent left and right temporal origin.  There is additional evidence for severe
diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which may at least in part be related to sedating medications.




These findings were communicated to the treating team and medication adjustments were made.
The patient was transferred to long term monitoring.
