HISTORY:

22 y.o. male with a history of microcephaly s/p multiple neurosurgeries, seizures
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 150 mg tablet, Take 3 tablets by mouth 2 times daily for 5 days.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically difficult record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation. Tech notes a skull defect over O2.



EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is symmetric and reactive and consists of a fairly organized mixture of alpha,
theta, and beta.


There is no clear posterior dominant rhythm.



There is mild generalized slowing.

There is continuous delta slowing with superimposed fast frequencies over the right occipital region
(O2 max).


There is occasional left occipital polymorphic slowing.

There is occasional independent left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing.



Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Continuous delta slowing with superimposed fast frequencies over the right occipital region (O2
max).


3. Occasional left occipital polymorphic slowing.



4. Occasional independent left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of right occipital dysfunction (likely structural), as well as left
occipital and left fronto-temporal dysfunction (both etiologically nonspecific), superimposed on a
mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.



Superimposed fast frequencies over the right occipital region likely represent breach rhythm and are
consistent with skull defect noted in this region.
