HISTORY: a 48 y.o. female with a history of refractory epilepsy referred for EEG for Wada Test; angiogram, followed by neuropsychological testing after administration of intracerebral amyobarbital for localization of language and memory.  

MEDICATIONS: Current Outpatient Prescriptions: zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 3 capsules by mouth daily for 360 days. levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 3 tablets by mouth 2 times daily for 180 days. oxcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 600 mg tablet, Take 1.5 tablets by mouth 2 times daily for 180 days. omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 40 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily. paroxetine (PAXIL) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. Ibuprofen 200 mg Capsule, Take 200 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed (headache). triamcinolone (KENALOG) 0.5 % cream, APPLY TO AFFECTED AREA TWO TIMES A DAY ON ELBOWS  facility-administered medications for this visit.   AMYTAL 125 mg   Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG. The TUH standard intraoperative montage was utilized. Recording includes a brief baseline ( <10 minutes) followed by continuous recording throughout the procedure. A physician  was present in the angiogram suite throughout the test.    Angiogram:Please see final report.  Right carotid injection: cross filling of the left anterior cerebral artery. Persistent fetal circulation with filling of the right posterior cerebral artery was noted. Left carotid injection: No cross filling of the anterior cerebral artery. Some filling of the posterior cerebral artery. 

EEG BACKGROUND: The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a low voltage  mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.   Wada test:  Right carotid injection: Injection of 125 mg mg amobarbital into the right carotid at 10:56:28 AM produces Beta on the right at 10:57, then unilateral focal slowing from the right hemisphere at 10:57:15. The patient demonstrated a left Hemiparesis, hoarseness, retching and dysarthria Testing of the 9 items follows. The EEG continues to demonstrate focal slowing in the right hemisphere Focal slowing gradually resolves and as it does, there are some bursts of bilateral. EEG returns to baseline at 11:06:10 and testing of the 9 items follows. Score: -0.05 ( a negative score) Left carotid injection: Injection of 125 mg amobarbital into the left carotid at 11:28 AM produces unilateral focal slowing in the left hemisphere by 11:29:49. The patient demonstrated a right hemiparesis and transient aphasia Features  of the pattern include prominent rhythmic mixed delta and theta, With some bursts of bilateral slowing  region.  he focal slowing resolves,EEG returns to its baseline at: 11:40:17 Score= 0.0  Score: HEART RATE: A heart rate of 80 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  

IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION: EEG monitoring during these carotid amobarbital testing demonstrated unilateral slowing from each hemisphere.  During that time, 3 objects 3 words and 3 designs were presented to test the patient's memory.  Left hemisphere dominance for language. Memory very poor bilaterally.  I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.  Please see the neuropsychological report for more detailed analysis of the results. For the purposes of clarity, that report is below: 

_________________________________________   

125 mg Sodium Amytal into Right Internal Carotid resulting in: Objects Words Designs Recognition  0/3 (0)  0/3 (0) 0/3 (1)  Score:  0 True positives - 1(0.5) false positives = -0.5   125 mg Sodium Amytal into Left Internal Carotid resulting in: Objects Words Designs Recognition  0/3 (0)  0/3 (0) 1/3 (2)  Score:  1 True positives - 2(0.5) false positives = 0  

IMPRESSION: had difficulty with attention and arousal with bilateral injections. It is unclear how well she was able to encode stimuli when under anesthesia as she was moving around, closing her eyes and mildly agitated during stimulus presentation. Therefore, the results should be viewed with caution.  Behavior: was mildly agitated during right injection, touched her face, covered her eyes, pulled out her nasal cannula and was not responding well to direction or attending to stimuli. During the left injection, she was more sedated and I had to manually open her eyes. Tracking was poor and she had visual field loss.  Language: Language was better supported by the left hemisphere, although she had difficulty with complex commands. Speech was also mildly garbled. During the left injection, she was globally aphasic- not following commands or producing speech.   Memory: had poor memory scores bilaterally. Following the right injection, she had no accurate spontaneous recall and did not recognize any target stimuli. Following the left injection, she confabulated a few items, recognized one design accurately, but did have 2 false positives for other designs. As her memory testing was relatively strong on her neuropsychological evaluation, these scores are not representative of her true ability. She had an asymmetry score of -0.5, which is not significant.
