HISTORY:

60 y.o. female with a history of right brain aneurysm clipping referred for
routine EEG for headache and an episode of loss of consciousness preceded by generalized malaise.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

solifenacin (VESICARE), omeprazole (PRILOSEC), ergocalciferol, Vitamin D2, conjugated estrogens
(PREMARIN) vaginal cream



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:



The waking background is characterized by the presence of asymmetric 9-10 Hz  posterior dominant
rhythmic activity, higher in amplitude and better developed on the right. Low amplitude beta activity
was seen, maximum over frontocentral regions.




During much of the tracing, the patient appeared drowsy, with slow rolling eye movements,
attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing.
Central and temporal mu rhythm and infrequent temporal wicket activity was seen. In addition, runs
of bilateral positive occipital sharp transients of sleep (POSTS) were noted.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 62 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a mildly abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to asymmetric alpha rhythm which was
better developed on the right, of uncertain clinical significance. No clinical or electrographic seizure
activity, no persistent focal slowing, and no other paroxysmal epileptiform discharges were recorded.
