HISTORY:

71 y.o. MAN PRESENTS WITH H/O EPISODE OF T/C SZ , DENIES B/B INCONT,
TONGUE BITING. LAST SZ 6 MOS. AGO.



MEDICATIONS:


Phenobarbital


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present at F7/T3 region during wakefulness, increasing
during drowsiness.



Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the F8/T4 region during wakefulness, increasing
during drowsiness.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent spike and polyspikes are seen with phase reversal at T5/P3


Rare spikes seen at T4



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

1. Frequent left posterior quadrant spikes and polyspikes

2. Rare right midtemporal spike


3. Continuous focal slow in the left anterior temporal region

4. Intermittent focal slow in the right midtemporal region




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to frequent left posterior quadrant spikes and
are right midtemporal spikes. These findings indicate the presence of potentially epileptogenic
regions. In addition the continuous focal slowing in the left anterior temporal region is indicative of
severe focal cerebral dysfunction in this region, likely structural in origin. Lastly there is intermittent
focal slowing in the right midtemporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction,
which is etiologically non-specific. No seizures were seen.
