HISTORY:

37 y.o. male with a history of seizures associated with loss of consciousness, last
occurring in 2013. The patient also had head trauma with intracranial hemorrhage after a fall in
December 2015. He was referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Keppra



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a large amount
of bilateral frontal and central beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.
Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9-9.5 Hz 40-60 uV Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




A large amount of frontal eye blink and muscle artifact was seen.



Occasional mild drowsiness was accompanied by a small amount of irregular bilateral medium
amplitude theta activity



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.





CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. If clinically indicated, a
more prolonged routine or extended ambulatory EEG may provide additional helpful information.
