HISTORY:

88 y.o. female referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion

senna (SENOKOT) tablet 2 tablet

docusate sodium (COLACE) capsule 100 mg


pantoprazole (PROTONIX) injection 40 mg





SEDATION: Versed



TECHNIQUE:




A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized mildly disorganized low to medium amplitude 8-9 Hz
rhythmic activity posteriorly. Low-voltage anteriorly predominant beta activity is seen with moderate
amounts of superimposed muscle and movement artifact.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, decreased muscle and movement artifact,
attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are
seen. In addition, brief runs of frontally predominant triphasic activity were seen.



Sleep is not captured



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm with occasional PVCs is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild background disorganization and borderline slowing of dominant posterior rhythm during
wakefulness


2. Occasional brief runs of triphasic-like activity, most prominent during drowsiness



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are nonspecific, with background disorganization and borderline slowing indicative of
a mild bihemispheric functional disturbance which can be seen with a variety of mild
encephalopathies of various etiologies. Triphasic activity is also typically seen with metabolic
disorders including hepatic, renal or hypoxic encephalopathy, e.g.
