HISTORY:

30 y.o. male with a history of relatively newly recognized epilepsy.  He presented
to an outside hospital having had any seizure characterized by stiffening and a fall.  Although he
was initially reluctant to describe his seizures, he stated that he has been having spells for some time,
perhaps 7-10 months with a feeling of unwell.  At the outside hospital, he had multiple events, not
always with aura, characterized by oral and manual automatisms followed by confusion and agitation
referred for routine EEG for management of seizure exacerbation.





MEDICATIONS:

Current :


lacosamide (VIMPAT) 200 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 12 hours.  Started at transfer.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:











A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) monitor was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG tactile and verbal stimulation.
Seizure and spike detection software was utilized.  During the entire monitoring session, the patient
reported one seizure but was able to amnestic for later during the monitoring session.  He had one of
the clinical events which were observed at Jeanes Hospital.




_________________________________

Day 1 May 14-15, 2016


EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse beta are seen.



Sleep is includes vertex waves, spindles and posts .  High amplitude F8/T2 spikes persist in stage II
sleep.

No generalized slowing is present.


Prominent focal slowing is present.  Ongoing rhythmic slowing is noted from the right anterior
temporal region with disruption of faster frequency activity in that region..



INTERICTAL EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent to nearly continuous right anterior temporal sharp waves are noted of variable amplitude to
feel utmost maximum at T2 or F8


TIRDA is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



EVENTS:

Multiple clinical or events captured during this study.

12:18, 12:21: Multiple electrographic seizures were identified characterized by these 2 examples.
They start with rhythmic repetitive sharp waves maximum at T2 and associated focal slowing in the
right temporal region.  There is clear buildup of the discharges.  They wax and wane and there are
some brief bursts of ictal activity but followed them.  After these 30 sec- 2 min bursts, there are
sections with a relatively normal awake low-voltage pattern




12:39 clinical seizure: 1 min 57 sec









Behavior: The patient is sitting in the dark in bed.  He  pushes the button.  He then demonstrates
some of the same automatisms reported by the earlier nursing team.  He seems to have automatisms
of the legs, maybe trying to get out of bed.  He is picking at things with both hands there is some
posturing of the left hand.  When the nurses enter, he is initially able to speak but doesn't speak
coherently until the end of the seizure.



EEG: The previously noted ongoing epileptiform activity stops briefly and the  EEG demonstrates an
awake low-voltage fast activity.  As the seizure begins, there is significant muscle artifact but there is
also rhythmic underlying 3-5 Hz activity in the right temporal region.  In comparison to all of the
other discharges, the epileptiform signature for this clinical seizure is much more subtle.  Following
the clinical seizure, ongoing rhythmic delta and sharp waves return.




EEG HEART RATE:

A heart rate of  50-60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.

DAY 1


IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  long-term monitor EEG due to:

1. Clinical complex partial seizure, similar to previously described with more subtle electrographic
signature


2. Nearly continuous focal slowing from the right anterior temporal region, at times rhythmic.

3. frequent right anterior temporal sharp waves and spikes some of which build up


4. Likely subtle or subclinical right temporal seizures.  Detailed testing during all discharges was not
possible


These findings indicate the presence of a highly epileptogenic process in the right temporal region.
This is congruent with the clinical history and the MRI demonstrated an abnormality in the right
amygdala.  The patient was monitored closely during this record.


-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 2 (May 15, 11:00  PM - 5/16/2016, 11:00)


AEDs: Vimpat


INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is  nearly symmetric and reaches 10 Hz.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes.  Abundant spikes from the right anterior temporal region are noted
in stage II sleep



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) primarily from the right anterior temporal region, rarely, (less than 2%
)noted in the left anterior temporal region



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):



None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Multiple practice pushbuttons



SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are no  Definitive clinical or events captured during this study.  The patient continued to have
rhythmic discharges from the right anterior temporal region, but unfortunately was not possible to
testing during the discharges



EKG: A single lead captured HR 50-66 BPM


-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 3(May 16 11 PM -17 2016, 13:00)



AEDs: Vimpat


INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:


The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is  symmetric and reaches 1o Hz.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured..




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) right anterior temporal sharp waves, spikes and rhythmic slowing, noted
wakefulness and sleep a better defined in sleep



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

The patient has multiple relatively brief or less than one minute discharges of rhythmic slowing and
sharp waves.  Unfortunately, the technologist was not able to test the patient during the well-defined
discharges.



SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are subtle  clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





Some examples of these include 4:36 PM and 5 PM on the 16th.  There are brief bursts of rhythmic
theta with sharp waves and clear frequency evolution while the patient is watching television.  When
they occur, he tends to be staring at the television.  There may be some oral automatisms.  He never
seems to move during the discharges and when the discharges and and he'll move in the bed or get
up and then go back to watching television.  He is a right-handed individual and is consistently
holding the remote in his right hand.  He never seems to be using the left hand during the
discharges.  The discharges would occur in wakefulness do seem to only occur when he is not moving




EKG: A single lead captured 60 BPM


Uncontrolled

-----------------------------------------------------------------



SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:


INTERICTAL FINDINGS:  The patients interictal findings were significant with normal EEG with 10
Hz posterior dominant rhythm, with  focal findings*and  epileptiform discharges.




ICTAL FINDINGS:

The patient did have clinical events.   He had one clinical seizure, similar to those identified at the
outside hospital.  Although he had a warning for the seizure, he was amnestic for the seizure.  He was
also amnestic for the early part of his hospitalization.  In all likelihood, the more briefer bursts of
epileptiform activity may also be clinically significant.  He seems to have motion arrest during them
although he spent much of his time in the hospital in bed watching television.




SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:


1. complex partial


EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:


1. complex partial epilepsy, with highly irritative EEG


CONCLUSION:


was admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 3 days with continuous video EEG.
This was an URGENT EMU monitoring session for  Uncontrolled epilepsy.



The interictal EEG is characterized by 10 normal, posterior dominant rhythm.



The patient was started on VIMPAT. KEPPRA was discontinued for lack of efficacy. No other
medication changes were made during the hospitalization.





After this data is acquired he was presented at surgical conference to discuss the  next step in his
surgical evaluation.




Patient is follow-up at the Temple- Jeanes  Epilepsy Center as an
outpatient.
