HISTORY:

36 y.o. male with a history of  with

epilepsy, Agenesis of corpus callosum, colpocephaly.  Stroke in


the past year, now referred for routine EEG for characterization

of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

KEPPRA, BACLOFEN, METOPROLOL, OMEPRAZOLE

SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and


photic stimulation.  Bilateral craniotomy defects were noted.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized  mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a


symmetric and reactive 11  Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).

The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.  Breach rhythm is characterized by an

increase in amplitude, notable in wakefulness and presents were


all stages of sleep.  Intermittently in wakefulness, there is a

clear asymmetry.  There is intermittent slowing noted from the


left hemisphere with disruption of faster frequency activity on

the left.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.  In drowsiness, the focal features


are noted with disruption of faster frequency activity on the

left more so than the right


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured. Abundant POSTS are


seen, higher amplitude on the left compared to the right.

Intermittent focal slowing can be seen from the left hemisphere


No generalized slowing is present.


Focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES



Photic Stimulation: Elicits in asymmetric driving response,

more vigorous on the left



EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. focal slowing from the left hemisphere noted in drowsiness and

intermittently in sleep.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


Given the clinical history described above, this is a remarkably

well organized EEG.  The focal features on the left may be

correlated with recent imaging.  No epileptiform features were

identified.  No previous EEGs from the patient's evaluation 6


years ago were available at this time
