HISTORY:

53 y.o. FEMALE PRESENTS WITH H/O ONSET SZ X 5

YRS AGO, SZ ARE WITH LOC AND TONGUE BITING. LAST SZ 3/20/16



MEDICATIONS:

DILANTIN



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and

photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.


Diffuse, frontally predominant 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also


seen.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.



Frequent polymorphic delta activity is present independently in

the bilateral fronto-temporal region during wakefulness,


increasing during drowsiness.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent sharp waves are seen at F7 with a large frontal field in

sleep.



Frequent sharp wave and spikes are seen at F4/C4 in sleep.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Focal sharp waves and spikes in the left fronto- temporal


region and right frontal-central region seen independently

2. Focal slowing seen independently in both fronto temporal

regions

3. Excess beta



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of a potential epileptogenic

focus in the left fronto- temporal region and right

frontal-central region which along with the clinical presentation

can be diagnostic of localization related epilepsy. The frequent


focal slowing in both fronto temporal regions is indicative of

focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.


Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication

effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.
