HISTORY:

41 y.o. female with a history of episodes of dizziness, sometimes associated
with unsteadiness and falls, occurring up to 3 times per week and lasting 10-15 minutes each time,
referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


meclizine (ANTIVERT) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily as needed for Dizziness or
Nausea.

empagliflozin-linagliptin (GLYXAMBI) 25-5 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide (PRINZIDE,ZESTORETIC) 20-25 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth
daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None




TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background consists of a mixture of symmetric and reactive low-voltage 10-12 Hertz
posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. A large amount
of generalized low voltage 20-30 Hz activity with superimposed low amplitude muscle artifact and
EKG artifact were seen.




During brief periods of drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm,
and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect. The patient complained of spinning sensation during hyperventilation.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 75 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.





IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.
