HISTORY:

75 y.o. male p/w bilateral cortical strokes, poor prognosis. EEG to rule out
electrographical seizures.



Pt was Med, Med3158 and had EEG in ED.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


docusate sodium (COLACE) liquid 100 mg

senna (SENOKOT) tablet 1 tablet

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 750 mg


famotidine (PEPCID) tablet 20 mg

aspirin chewable tablet 81 mg

carvedilol (COREG) tablet 12.5 mg


ipratropium-albuterol (DUO-NEB) nebulizer solution 3 mL

clopidogrel (PLAVIX) tablet 75 mg



sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


No posterior dominant rhythm was present. Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.



Frontally maximal sharp waves with triphasic morphology are present throughout the recording.
These waveforms demonstrate an anterior to posterior phase lag are seen best over the right
hemisphere.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured


Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left hemisphere maximal in the
frontotemporal region, with loss of faster frequencies and attenuation.



Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right frontotemporal region.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min)  right frontotemporal sharp waves.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

There is no reactivity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

1. Right frontotemporal sharp waves.

2. Intermittent right frontotemporal region focal slow waves

3. Continuous focal slow waves left hemisphere maximal in the frontotemporal region.


4. Generalized slow waves and triphasics




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal comatose only  routine EEG due to right frontotemporal sharp waves and
intermittent focal slow waves, which is indicative of focal dysfunction and irritability in that region.


In addition there is continuous focal slow waves left hemisphere maximal in the frontotemporal
region. This finding is indicative of severe focal cerebral dysfunction in this region, likely structural in
origin. Lastly there is triphasic waves and moderate diffuse background slowing.  These findings are
indicative of a severe diffuse encephalopathy, which is etiologically nonspecific, but suggestive of a
metabolic origin.
