HISTORY:

24 y.o. female with a history of teen onset epilepsy, then SLE  referred for
routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


Now with excessive drowsiness, vertigo, fatigue.

MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain.


hydroxychloroquine (PLAQUENIL) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

Calcium Carbonate-Vitamin D3 (CALCIUM 500 WITH D) 500 mg(1,250mg) -400 unit Tablet, Take 1
tablet by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).


azaTHIOprine (IMURAN) 50 mg tablet, Take 3 tablets by mouth daily.

albuterol (PROAIR HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 1 puff into the lungs every 6 hours as
needed for Wheezing.


prochlorperazine (COMPAZINE) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


Biotin 10,000 mcg Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

PARoxetine (PAXIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth at bedtime.





TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.

Sleep is not sustained



No generalized slowing is present.  Rare shifting frontal focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Rare irregular frontally predominant bursts of 3-4 spike and wave with bursts of 2-2.5 seconds duration
are noted in wakefulness.


Focal sharp waves were seen in early drowsiness at T3 and P3. Infrequent.

OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

There are bursts of frontal 4 Hz activity with slight R frontal maximum, but without a definitive spike.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Hyperventilation: elicits bursts of sharply contoured and at times asynchronous slowing, but no
definitive spikes.


Photic Stimulation: in addition to a driving response, 4 Hz frontal high amplitude theta occurs in
brief 1 second burst with 11 Hz stimuli


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of  54bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG.

1. Irregular  bursts of 3-4 spike and wave activity


2. Irregular bursts of frontal theta, slightly asymmetric

3. Rare focal sharp waves T3  Or P3


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These finding have been been previously identified in this adult with teen onset epilepsy but were
not seen in 2015.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
