HISTORY: 64 y.o. with a history of seizures since the age of 16 after being in MVA. Pt transferred from OSH due to multiple seizures. PT still obtunded and not at baseline  PMH: MS since 1990  MEDICATIONS: Current Facility-Administered Medications: sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion phenobarbital (LUMINAL) injection 60 mg ceftriaxone (ROCEPHIN) 1 g in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB MB+ phenobarbital (LUMINAL) 60 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 50 mL IVPB sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg   SEDATION: see above  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.  DAY 1 (10/29/2016, 21:00 - 10/30/2016, 08:00)  BACKGROUND: The waking background of diffuse theta/delta background that at times appears to become organized with some anterior alpha and posterior theta only seen in the left hemisphere.  Posterior dominant rhythm was present on the left hemisphere and at best it reached 8Hz.  The background is reactive and variable.  Continuous  polymorphic delta activity and attenuation is present in the right hemisphere maximal in the anterior temporal region.   Sleep was not captured but state changes are noted.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  Intermittent poorly formed right anterior temporal sharp waves are seen.  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured 84  DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to continuous focal slowing and attenuation in the right hemisphere maximal in the anterior temporal region as well as sharp waves.  This finding is indicative of severe focal cortical dysfunction and irritability in this region, likely structural in origin. In addition there is mild to moderate diffuse background slowing and slow alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild to moderate  diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  -------------------------------------------------------- TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.  DAY 2 (10/30/2016, 08:00 - 10/31/2016, 09:12)  BACKGROUND: The waking background of diffuse theta/delta background that at times appears to become organized with some anterior alpha and posterior theta only seen in the left hemisphere.  Posterior dominant rhythm was present on the left hemisphere and at best it reached 8Hz.  The background is reactive and variable.  Continuous  polymorphic delta activity and attenuation is present in the right hemisphere maximal in the anterior temporal region.  This attenuation improves in amplitude over the 24hrs and faster frequencies are seen at the end of the record.  Sleep was not captured but state changes are noted.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  Intermittent poorly formed right anterior temporal sharp waves are seen.  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured 84  DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to continuous focal slowing and attenuation in the right hemisphere maximal in the anterior temporal region as well as sharp waves.  This finding is indicative of severe focal cortical dysfunction and irritability in this region, likely structural in origin. In addition there is mild to moderate diffuse background slowing and slow alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction. 
