HISTORY:

58 y.o. male with a history of

osteomyelitis referred for EEG for treatment of status


epilepticus.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2

times daily.


Inpatient medicines

Ativan. Mg, Midazolam Phenytoin







TECHNIQUE:

Continuous video EEG 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG. Seizure

and spike detection software was utilized.  Normal review by

attending physician was implemented.  Techs were present during

the daytime hours for record review and seizure identification.



The patient was obtunded, then intubated.  Clinical features for


the patient included initially, head turning to the right later,

midline.  Occasional movements of the feet were noted right or

Left.

Medicines: Ativan. Mg, Midazolam, phenytoin



DAY 1 (Dec 30 @ 17:39 - 12/31/2015, 06:00) LTM 15-369.1



BACKGROUND:

The EEG begins as the patient is being treated initially with

Ativan.  The EEG commences in the middle of one of the patient's


seizures.  Total seizure duration 2 minutes 39 seconds.  During

the first hour of the cEEG  the patient receives a loading dose


of phenytoin.  This produces a change in the seizures.  Rather

than prolonged, 4-5 minutes seizures, as noted in the baseline,

seizures are shorter in duration and are intermittent rather than

nearly continuous.



All seizures localized to the left hemisphere particularly the


left temporal region.


There are 3 ictal patterns.

#1 seizure the begins with a burst of fast, 13.5 Hz beta


activity.

#2 seizures that begin with a burst of alpha frequency activity


#3: seizures that  begin with more rhythmic repetitive theta

frequency sharp waves were sharply contoured theta, then


transitioning sometimes to the fast activity.



Seizure duration decreases to one minute 13 seconds.

By 10 PM, the seizures seem to have stopped.



Brief ictal discharges reappear at 5 AM.  These are more subtle,

and include a lower voltage beta buzz in the left temporal

region.  Duration 20-30 seconds


There are also brief, 12-13 seconds duration ictal discharges

which have the #3 seizure pattern-type with theta activity.



None of the ictal discharges have a clinical correlate in this

intubated comatose patient



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

No normal variants



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

See above



EVENTS: Subclinical seizures only



EKG: A single lead captured HR 70


DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Initial improvement of status epilepticus pattern with eventual


recurrence of more subtle ictal discharges on the morning of the

31st



-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 2 (06:00 - 12/31/2015 to Jan 1, 2016 06:00)  LTM 15-394.2


Medications: Phenytoin, Versed, others , Phenobarbital was added.

The patient was taken off monitor at 10 PM for an MRI scan of


the brain.  There were some problems with electrode integrity

when he returned at midnight.



BACKGROUND: The overall background is a low voltage, beta

pattern, with smaller amounts of delta.  There is more subtle,

slowing noted from the left hemisphere particularly left


frontocentral or frontotemporal.




Seizures:

1. 30 seconds ictal discharges with primarily the pattern are

noted early in the morning, noted intermittently, not sustained,

not associated with clinical symptoms.


2. Brief, subtle discharges with low voltage beta and paroxysmal

slowing


GENERALIZED SLOWING: See above


FOCAL SLOWING: Left frontocentral



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None significant



SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Intermittent, with more subtle

seizures are noted from the left hemisphere with brief, 32 second

bursts of paroxysmal fast activity.

These ictal discharges become more vigorous at noon, with more


frequent and well-defined seizures with paroxysmal alpha theta

frequency activity.



By 7 PM there are brief bursts of repetitive sharp waves seen

infrequently from the L FT region, but none significant after

this.


Phenobarbital was initiated after 1 PM which seems to reduce the

more subtle discharges and increase the beta activity in the EEG



EVENTS: See above.  No clinical seizures, only subclinical



EKG: A single EKG lead captured HR 60



DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION


During the afternoon of the 31st, briefer electrographic

discharges and some brief seizures were noted.  Phenobarbital,

960 mg was administered.  By 10 PM, no additional well-defined

seizures were noted.


The clinical team was updated


-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 3( 1/1/2016-1/2/2016, 06:00) LTM 15-394.3


Versed at 9 mg per hour was continued.  The patient received 2


additional doses of phenobarbital, and was maintained at 90 mg

each bedtime.  Phenytoin was on hold.


The patient was intubated.  Suctioning or tactile stimulation of

the patient produced an arousal.  He was noted to have

intermittent movements of his feet, without ictal change



BACKGROUND: The background includes a low voltage pattern which

in beta frequency activity and smaller amounts of delta.  There


intermittent brief attenuations


GENERALIZED SLOWING: See above



FOCAL SLOWING: There is subtle focality in the left central

temporal region but no definitive ictal discharges



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None significant



SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None



EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected



EKG: A single EKG lead captured HR 66 BPM




DAY 3 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION



No clinical or significant electrographic seizures have been

noted since the afternoon/evening  of the 31st.  The background

is compatible with pharmacologic coma.

Focal features seem to be resolving


-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 4 ( 06:00 - 1/2/2016- 1/3/2014, 06:00)

Medications: Phenobarbital, Versed, daptomycin

The patient is intubated, poorly responsive with preserved

cranial nerve signs.  He responds to tactile stimulation


including suctioning or movements of the lower extremities.

BACKGROUND: The background includes a low voltage pattern which


in beta frequency activity and smaller amounts of delta.  There

are intermittent brief attenuations.  As the recording continues,

the patient is increasingly moving about and responsive with a

more continuous pattern which is dynamic and reactive.



GENERALIZED SLOWING: see above.  Improving



FOCAL SLOWING: Minimal, subtle noted in the left hemisphere


PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None significant



SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Not found



EVENTS: None



EKG: A single EKG lead captured 78





DAY 4 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION


No seizures, epileptiform activity appears to have disappeared.




DAY 5 (1/3/2016 - 1/4/2016, 06:00) the EEG was discontinued later


on in the morning of the fourth

BACKGROUND

This is a dynamic background.  During this 24-hour section, the

patient was increasingly awake alert.  The Versed drip was


discontinued and the patient extubated.  He was initially

responsive to simple commands and not more complex commands



The waking background is continuous, reasonably symmetric,

well-orgpain increasingly continuous, mixed frequency pattern

which in beta and alpha frequency activity Posterior dominant


rhythm was present .



The background is reactive, and variable.


There were no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.



Sleep was identieded



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None significant nonsignificant



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None signficant



EVENTS: None


EKG: A single lead captured HR 70



DAY 5 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

his is the conclusion of long-term continuous video EEG


monitoring for a patient who presented in status epilepticus.

The initial seizures were localized to the left hemisphere

particularly left temporal region.

As outlined above, although there was more than one


electrographic patterns the seizures, localization was consistent

in the left hemisphere/left temporal region.  Seizures improved


when Versed was administered and ultimately disappeared when the

patient was loaded with phenobarbital.  He was maintained on a

Versed drip for more than 48 hours and has been seizure-free

since the 31st
