HISTORY:

18 y.o. female with a history of 2 episodes of loss of consciousness associated
with referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

Multivitamins-Iron-Folic Acid (CENTRUM COMPLETE) 18-400 mg-mcg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by
mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:






A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 20-30 uV 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR),
which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. A large amount of muscle artifact secondary to jaw
clenching was seen during wakefulness.





During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen. In addition, intermittent left temporal psychomotor variant was seen. A
single sharply contoured medium amplitude occipital transient was noted, likely indicative of a
positive occipital sharp transients of sleep (POST).




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and was
accompanied by prominent muscle artifact but no other activation of the record.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
