HISTORY:

24 y.o.woman with a hx of sz since the age of 12. Last sz was 2 days ago.



PMH: Asthma



MEDICATIONS:

Advair, Vimpat, Topamax



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:




The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with asymmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR)
seen best overt the right. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is
present.




Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left temporal region at T3/T5 during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. There is an associated increase in amplitude and faster
frequencies consistent with a breach rhythm.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and assymmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes (all seen with higher amplitude over the left). Slow wave sleep was
not captured.





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
additional abnormalities.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:




1. Continuous focal slowing in the left mid to posterior temporal region and an associated breach.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to continuous focal slowing in the left mid to
posterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of severe focal cerebral dysfunction in this
region, likely structural in origin.
