START DATE OF STUDY: 06/23/16 at 16:32 END DATE OF STUDY: 06/24/16 at 15:25  RECORDING ENVIRONMENT:  EEG TYPE: long term monitoring   HISTORY: a 52 y.o. male with a history of bilateral pulmonary emboli, pneumonia, on ECMO, who is referred for EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events (proximal LUE twitching) and assessment of mental status change (stuporous).  MEDICATIONS: versed, fentanyl, insulin, albumin, others  SEDATION: as above  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (6/23/2016, 16:32 - 6/24/2016, 15:25)  BACKGROUND: The waking background is continuous and symmetric but poorly organized, without a posterior dominant rhythm or sleep transients. The background is variable, with periods of diffuse alpha alternating with diffuse low amplitude delta with admixed theta.  Occasionally subtle attenuation of faster frequencies is noted over the right hemisphere. There is moderate to severe generalized slowing.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  None  EVENTS:  Two push button events on 6/23/2016 at 23:53, 23:58 CLINICAL: Nonrhythmic fine tremor of left shoulder that spread to involve trunk EEG: No ictal EEG correlate, other than muscle artifact, is present EKG: No change in baseline heart rate  One push button event on 6/24/2016 at 08:08 CLINICAL: Patient obscured by camera angle and blankets, but appears to have same tremulous movements of body EEG: No ictal EEG correlate, other than muscle artifact, is present EKG: No change in baseline heart rate   EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 80s  IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to: 1. Moderate to severe generalized slowing with poor organization 2. Subtle attenuation of faster frequencies seen intermittently over the right hemisphere 3. Three push button events for tremulous movements as detailed above, without EEG correlate   CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Attenuation of faster frequencies over the right hemisphere can be consistent either with cortical dysfunction over this region, or alternatively can be seen with any etiology that increases the distance between the cortex and recording electrodes, such as subdural hematoma, epidural hematoma, or scalp hematoma - clinical correlation is advised.  Three push button events for tremulous movements as detailed above had no EEG cerebral correlate and are unlikely to represent seizure activity.   Reading attending: 
