HISTORY:

52 y.o. female with a history of two seizures, associated with fasting. referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

OYSTER SHELL CALCIUM 500 500 mg calcium (1,250 mg) Tablet,

VITAMIN D-3 2,000 unit Capsule,


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:



A 1 hour  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9.3 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  There is a
high amplitude PDR of >70 uV.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  Hypnogogic hypersynchrony was noted.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Underlying focal slowing is present noted in drowsiness with isolated left greater than right with bursts
of theta or delta




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Occasional wicket waves are noted during drowsiness over the temporal regions



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: is performed. It produces high amplitude of the background. Following
hyperventilation, there is some shifting slowing in the frontotemporal region, left greater than right.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead. Occasional irregular heart rate noted on
the EKG in drowsiness.




IMPRESSION:

This is a mildly abnormal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG due to:


1. Shifting temporal slowing left more than right noted only at the end of hyperventilation and the
end of drowsiness.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are non specific. Correlation with imaging and clinical history may be of value. The
intermittently irregular heart rate may need further assessment.
