HISTORY:

50 y.o. female with a history of epilepsy, mental retardation, multiple complex
medical problems referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


The patient has been experiencing staring spells

MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


blood sugar diagnostic (ASCENSIA CONTOUR) Strip, Use as directed

Insulin NPH & Regular Human (HUMULIN 70/30 PEN) 100 unit/mL (70-30) Insulin Pen, Inject 10
Units into the skin 2 times daily (before meals).


lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

benzonatate (TESSALON PERLES) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth every 6 hours as
needed for Cough.


Lancets & Blood Glucose Strips Combo Pack, Use prior to meals and bedtime.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is abnormal.  It is primarily a diffuse theta background.  There is an
asymmetry, with higher amplitude more regular theta noted on the left compared to the right



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not sustained


Generalized slowing is present.

Focal slowing is present.  Not only is there an amplitude asymmetry, there is somewhat slower theta
on the left and occasional bursts of delta



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

3-4 second bursts of frontally predominant 3-5 Hz spike and wave activity were identified.  On one
occasion, the burst clearly began with focal, sharply contoured activity out of the left hemisphere for
1-2 second before the generalized activity




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.




EVENTS:

There was 1clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  The technologist noted that
the patient had a staring spell around the time of the generalized spike and wave discharge but the
machine froze




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of120 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. frontally predominant 3.5-5 Hz spike and wave activity which is sometimes maximal on the left.


2. generalized background slowing

3. an asymmetry with generally slower frequency activity on the left



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are diagnostic for an underlying epilepsy.  There are features of both a generalized
and a focal process noted.  The findings were identified immediately by the clinical team and the
patient was referred for ongoing EEG monitoring
