HISTORY:

This is a 65 y.o. Woman with seizures since her 50's



Pt describes 3 types of episodes:



#1 - convulsions


- no warning

- shakes all over

- no incontinence or tongue biting; no muscle soreness


- has fallen, hurting leg, knee --> walks with cane




- describes agitation

- may go 1-1.5 yrs w/o one (last episodes: 12/18/15, 11/2/16)




#2 - staring


- no warning

- would be unaware of one

- lasts 1 min

- may go 1-1.5 yrs w/o one (last episodes: 12/18/15, 11/2/16)




#3 - amnesia


- disorganized, inappropriate behavior (describes sexual behavior towards her husband that she later
doesn't remember, and then abruptly stops)

- may go 1-1.5 yrs w/o one (last episodes: 12/18/15, 11/2/16)




Had one witnessed episode of shaking during EEG with no correlate.



Epilepsy Risk Factors: No complications during birth. Denies a family history of seizures, history of
head trauma, previous CNS infection, febrile seizures or developmental delay.



Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Characterization of seizures.


Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:


- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;


- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patients exam

There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service




CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:








A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case.  Impedances were measured and verified to be
below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to
computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest
and reviewed in detail.





Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.






The  spike and seizure detection computer program was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.
Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as
selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


amLODIPine (NORVASC) tablet 5 mg

aspirin EC tablet 81 mg

hydroCHLOROthiazide (HYDRODIURIL) tablet 12.5 mg


ipratropium-albuterol (DUO-NEB) nebulizer solution 3 mL

nitroGLYCERIN (NITROSTAT) SL tablet 0.4 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg

alum-mag hydroxide-simeth (MYLANTA;MAALOX) 200-200-20 mg/5 mL suspension 30 mL

LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg


pseudoephedrine (SUDAFED) liquid 15 mg

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 1,500 mg

topiramate (TOPAMAX) tablet 200 mg




SEDATION: None



DAY 1 (1/30/2017, 11:30 - 1/31/2017, 06:00)



BACKGROUND:



The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by synchronous and symmetric sleep transients, including vertex waves, sleep
spindles, and K complexes. Slow wave sleep is not captured.



Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the bilateral midtemporal regions.



No generalized slowing is present.




PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): Occasional wicket waves are noted during
drowsiness over the



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) T3,T4 and F8/T4, F7/T3 sharp/spikes waves are noted.  This at times
have a large field with a more anterior prefrontal component and rarely a more posterior component.




T3 Temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity is also seen.


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events were reported or detected.



EKG: A single lead captured 84 with PVCs. Some skipped beats.


DAY 1 IMPRESSION


1. Left and right mid-temporal and anterior temporal occasional sharp waves and spikes

2. Left TIRDA

3. Intermittent bilateral mid-temporal focal slow waves.


4. Abnormal EKG


INDUCTION PROCEDURES:



None



SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:

Interictal Findings:



Ictal Findings:

The patient had no clinical events while hooked up to continuous video EEG monitoring in the
epilepsy monitoring unit.



SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:


1. None captured


EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:


1. Localization related epilepsy possibly arising from the temporal regions.


CONCLUSION:


The patient was admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 1 day with continuous video EEG.
This was an uneventful EMU monitoring session.



The interictal EEG is characterized occasional sharp waves and intermittent focal slowing in the
bilateral mid-temporal and anterior temporal regions.  This finding is indicative of a potentially
epileptogenic foci and additional focal cerebral dysfunction in those regions.
