HISTORY:

77 y.o. male with a history of cardiac arrest

on 02/26/2016, currently receiving hypothermia referred for


routine EEG for screening for subclinical seizures.  Comatose

with intermittent and stimulus induced  Myoclonus, decerebrate

posturing. CT with cerebral edema.  Temp 32 degrees at


initiation, 37 degrees at the end.


MEDICATIONS:


Nitroglycerin

Vecuronium

Neo-Synephrine


Vasopressin

SEDATION: Propofol, transitioning to Versed 7 mg.  Versed was

discontinued in the AM on the 28th.






TECHNIQUE:

A continuous video digital 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG)


was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

tactile, auditory stimulation.  Muscle artifact was prominent.


Day 1 Feb 27, 2016- Feb 28, 2016


EEG BACKGROUND:

The  background is markedly abnormal and characterized burst


suppression pattern, seen best after 10:40 AM, with periods of

suppression lasting as long as 4 minutes.  Typical bursts of

cerebral activity may last up to 8 seconds and include a mixture

of 11 Hz, 6 Hz and 1-3 Hz activity without evolution.



Initially, bursts of cerebral activity were associated with eye


flutter or axial motor activity.  This disappeared the use of

vecuronium and did not recur when vecuronium was discontinued.


In the initial hours of the recording, periods of suppression


were marked.  As the patient was rewarmed and Versed was

decreased and then discontinued, periods of suppression word


typically less than 10 seconds.  Bursts of paroxysmal activity

with a mixture of alpha and beta frequency activity were

typically a 4 seconds in duration, sometimes occurring in pairs.

Tactile stimulation the patient did not alter this pattern.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: No focal spikes were identified



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

See above only


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: tactile stimulation elicits Myoclonus in


the early part of the record but does not otherwise change the

EEG pattern


EVENTS:

There are no sustained seizures captured during this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78-120 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal LTM routine EEG due to:

1. Burst suppression pattern.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are frequently found in association with severe


anoxic insult.  These findings may be correlated with the

patient's clinical exam and imaging.  The EEG pattern was

discussed with the team on the morning of the 28th.  EEG

monitoring was discontinued with the plan to manage the patient


clinically.
