HISTORY:

37 y.o. female with a history of

refractory epilepsy referred for routine EEG for evaluation of


paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, 100 mg 3 times daily.

ergocalciferol, Vitamin D2, 50,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule


by mouth every 7 days.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2

times daily.


Patient states that she takes Keppra,


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.






SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and

photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is markedly abnormal.  There is a

background of diffuse rhythmic theta with superimposed small

amounts of theta.  In wakefulness, there are abundant

epileptiform discharges, primarily sharp waves.  These are seen


in every 10 seconds page.  They are maximum at T1, T3 or

occasionally T5.  Less commonly, they aren't noted in T2.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements are noted;

background slowing is relatively unchanged.


Sleep includes vertex waves and spindles.



Significant generalized slowing is present.


Shifting focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Abundant, including the independent right and left temporal sharp


waves described above.

There are brief trains of sharp waves noted from the left


temporal region.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Produces an increase in muscle.  In


addition, there is a 2 second burst of 11 Hz activity with

superimposed beta activity.  This is present bilaterally but,


seems to initiate in the left hemisphere.  The alpha frequency

activity is a little bit more frontal and the beta activity more


parietal


Photic Stimulation: Does not clearly activate the record



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.  The patient was interviewed by a physician and the

technologist.  She seemed to be a little confused but there were

no clinical seizures recorded were observed



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal 44 min awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. abundant epileptiform activity, most prominent in the left


hemisphere including mid, anterior or posterior temporal region

2. less prominent right mid anterior temporal sharp waves


3. a somewhat generalized paroxysmal bursts, clinically not

significant noted hyperventilation

4. background slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings  indicate the presence of a highly epileptiform


focus in the left hemisphere.  The generalized background slowing

supports a diffuse disturbance of cerebral function.  Given the

prominence of epileptiform activity, the patient's mental status

and recent seizures, she was offered admission to the hospital


for more urgent evaluation today which she declined.
