HISTORY:

25 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.


"intellectually gifted 23-year-old physical therapist who presents for evaluation of recurrent
stereotypic episodes suspected as being a seizure equivalent. The patient is one of fraternal triplets
and the only sibling that experiences the phenomenon. He describes the abrupt onset of a general
feeling of weakness malaise lethargy and impending loss of consciousness but not complete syncope.
The attacks last upwards to an hour and then clear without residual. From the age of 3 he would
experience an attack perhaps once a year but in the last 6 months he has experienced a substantially
greater number of these episodes none of the attacks are associated with appendicular weakness or
sensory disturbance and there is no cognitive change, speech dysfunction or aphasia."





MEDICATIONS:

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.

TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Overall organization is within normal limits for age.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


Sleep is not sustained, but there are brief epochs of stage II sleep.

No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Elicits hypersynchronous slowing


Photic Stimulation: Elicits bilateral driving



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60-72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
