HISTORY:

71 y.o. WOMAN R HANDED. PT. STATES SHE HAS VERTIGO AND
DIZZINESS WITH DIPLOPIA.



PMHX.MENINGIOMA



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


oxcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 600 mg tablet, Take 600 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 100 mg tablet, Take 150 mg by mouth 2 times daily.

montelukast (SINGULAIR) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth nightly.


acetaminophen (Q-PAP) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain.

oxybutynin (DITROPAN) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth 3 times daily.

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.


losartan (COZAAR) 100 mg tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth daily.

gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 3 times daily.



aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.

amitriptyline (ELAVIL) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth nightly.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of poorly organized mixture of alpha theta
frequencies, with a posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) that at best reached 8 Hertz .



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured

Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right mid-temporal region with an associated
increased in amplitude which is consistent with a breach rhythm.



Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left mid-temporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Occasional wicket waves are noted during drowsiness over the left midtemporal regions



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.





EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous focal slowing in the right mid-temporal region.


2. Intermittent focal slowing in the left mid-temporal region

3. Mild diffuse slow waves and disorganization


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to continuous focal slowing in the right mid-
temporal region and breach rhythm.  This finding is indicative of severe focal cerebral dysfunction in
this region, which is consistent with the known meningioma. The intermittent focal slowing in the left
mid-temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
non-specific.



Lastly, there is mild diffuse background slowing and disorganization.  These findings are etiologically
nonspecific indicators of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
