Temple University Hospital Neurodiagnostic Laboratories Electroencephalography Report  HISTORY: 67 y.o. male with a history of R ICA aneurysm, s/p R peroneal craniotomy, CVA, seizure, cognitive disorder, HTN referred for routine EEG for generalized tonic clonic seizure and concern for status epilepticus.  MEDICATIONS: valproate  SEDATION: none listed  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.  EEG BACKGROUND: The waking background is continuous, reactive, and asymmetric, consisting of fairly organized alpha, beta, and occasional theta activity, with superimposed frontal rhythmic delta activity. There is higher amplitude frontal rhythmic delta activity, with attenuated faster frequencies, over the right frontal region compared with the left. There are fragments of an irregular posterior dominant rhythm of 8.5 Hz, seen best over the left.  During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and further background slowing are seen.    Sleep is not captured  There is mild generalized slowing.   There is no focal slowing  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Near continuous frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity (FIRDA, also known as GRDA) is present at 1-1.5 Hz, with higher amplitude over the right.  OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  HEART RATE: A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to: 1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization 2. Posterior dominant rhythm seen sub-optimally on the right 3. Attenuated faster frequencies over the right frontal region 4. Near continuous frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity, with higher amplitude over the right  CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings indicate the presence of right frontal cortical dysfunction and right hemispheric dysfunction superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity is a nonspecific but pathologic finding that is seen most commonly with toxic-metabolic disturbances, but has also been associated with deep structural lesions, increased intracranial pressure, or hyperexcitability. Clinical correlation is advised. The finding of higher amplitude frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity is likely related to the patient's prior craniotomy over this region.
