HISTORY:

This is a 45 y.o. male undergoing outpatient continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG)
monitoring with a history of: paroxysmal events of unclear etiology.




Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Evaluation of paroxysmal events.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;






- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient's exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case.  Impedances were measured and verified to be
below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to
computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest
and reviewed in detail.





Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.






The  spike and seizure detection computer program was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.
Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as
selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS:

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

triamterene-hydrochlorothiazide (DYAZIDE) 37.5-25 mg per capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth every
morning.


enalapril (VASOTEC) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits:


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) capsule 100 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg

enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg

triamterene-hydrochlorothiazide (DYAZIDE) 37.5-25 mg per capsule 1 capsule




dextrose 50% injection 25 mL

dextrose 50% injection 50 mL


glucagon (human recombinant) (GLUCAGEN) injection 1 mg




SEDATION: None


-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 1 (11/02/2016, 06:00 - 11/03/2016)



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

While the patient is normoglycemic, the background consists of 10 Hz PDR and expected AP
(anterior-to-posterior) gradient.  When patient's blood glucose decreases into the hypoglycemic
range, his background changes and consists of predominantly diffuse polymorphic theta and delta
activity.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Rare bifrontal spikes with shifting predominance in sleep. During wakefulness, these become frequent
during times of hypoglycemia.  Additionally, during periods of profound hypoglycemia, generalized
occipitally predominant spikes with aftergoing slow waves appear.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



SEIZURES/EVENTS:


Two events are captured.

First event







DAY 3 (11/4/2016, 16:30 - 11/5/2016, 06:00)



BACKGROUND:



The waking background is continuous, symmetric, well-organized, and consists predominantly of
alpha with admixed beta. Occasionally, diffuse excess theta is seen in wakefulness.



Drowsiness is characterized by attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and
further slowing of the background.

Sleep was characterized by symmetric sleep spindles and/or K-complexes.



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Rare bifrontal spikes with shifting predominance in sleep. During wakefulness, these become
frequent during times of hypoglycemia.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

11/6/2016 08:03


Accucheck documented as 29.

EEG: background consists of suboptimally organized theta with frequent bifrontal spikes.



DAY 3 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal video EEG due to:

1. Occasional diffuse excess theta in wakefulness



-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 4 (11/5/2016, 06:00 - 11/6/2016, 06:00)



AEDs: Zonegran HELD



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:


No change



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No change



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s-90s






-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 5 (11/6/2016, 06:00 - 11/6/2016, 20:45)



AEDs: none



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

No change



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No change



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Patient is sleep deprived until 11/7/2016 03:00



SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s-90s
