HISTORY:

60 y.o. female with a history of 1 seizure 15 years ago, now with episodes
occurring about once per month in which she experiences a "flash" in her head lasting for several
seconds, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


hydrochlorothiazide (HYDRODIURIL)

metFORMIN (GLUCOPHAGE)

cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL)


lovastatin (MEVACOR)

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN)

amlodipine (NORVASC)


aspirin 81 mg EC tablet,


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 30-40 uV 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR),
which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. EKG artifact and moderate amounts of muscle
artifact are seen.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen.




Brief periods of stage II sleep are noted with attenuation of faster frequency activity, increased
medium amplitude delta and theta frequency slowing, and vertex waves.



No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:




There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 62 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
