HISTORY:

36 y.o. female with a history of right sided body tremors.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


MOMETASONE/FORMOTEROL (DULERA IN), Inhale  into the lungs.

propranolol (INDERAL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth 3 times daily.

primidone (MYSOLINE) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth 4 times daily.


fludrocortisone (FLORINEF) 0.1 mg tablet, Take 0.1 mg by mouth daily.

cyanocobalamin (VITAMIN B-12) 1,000 mcg tablet, Take 1,000 mcg by mouth daily.

midodrine (PROAMATINE) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth 3 times daily.


ergocalciferol, Vitamin D2, (VITAMIN D) 50,000 unit Capsule, Take 50,000 Units by mouth every 7
days.
ALBUTEROL IN, Inhale  into the lungs.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 12 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Fast and slow alpha variant is captured.




Diffuse excess beta activity is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:




In the middle of photic stimulation patient develops low amplitude high frequency right hand tremors
that last for the rest of the study (~5 minutes).  EEG remains normal and without change during those
tremors.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.



Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.



Episode of right hand tremors that starts during photic stimulation and lasts ~ 5 minutes has no
abnormal ictal correlate.  Please correlate clinically.  Of note, only ~ 25% of simple partial seizures
are captured on a scalp EEG.
