HISTORY:


55 y.o. Female with a history of R frontal

stroke, lupus, PAD, HTN, afib, CAD, hypothyroidism, ESRD on HD,

valve replacement, DVT/PE on Coumadin, admitted for vascular


bypass and s/p PEA arrest x22 minutes on the floor, now

intubated, with altered mental status and left gaze deviation.



MEDICATIONS:

Meropenem, protonix



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the




International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG.



DAY 1 (10/3/2015, 17:15 - 10/4/2015, 06:00)


EEG BACKGROUND:

The background is continuous and symmetric. It consists of a


poorly organized mixture of delta and theta frequencies.

There is no clear reactivity or state change. Variability is


present; at times the background is more attenuated with theta

and admixed faster frequencies.


There is moderate to severe diffuse slowing.


There is no clear focal slowing.



Following administration of Ativan 8 mg, the background is nearly

continuous and consists of a disorganized mixture of theta,

delta, and faster frequencies, with frequent admixed 2-3 seconds

of diffuse attenuation.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY / EVENTS:


1. There are nearly continuous sharp-and-wave complexes over the

right central region (C4 max) every 1-3 seconds, which reflect

over the right temporal region and left central region at times

(lateralized periodic discharges, or LPDs, formerly known as


PLEDs)

2. There are very frequent independent, sharp waves diffusely


over the left parasagittal region (F3/C3/P3)


The technician reports continuous left gaze and head deviation

and that the patient's body is stiff on the left side.



Following the administration of Ativan 4 mg, the left gaze and


head deviation resolve, and the right LPDs become less periodic.

A total of 8 mg Ativan is administered. Following this


administration, the C4 LPDs occur once every 1-4 seconds, less

periodically.  Rarely they occur at 3 Hz for <3 seconds followed


by rhythmic delta at 1 Hz for <5 seconds. They may

reflect over the left parasagittal region.



The independent sharp waves over the left parasagittal region

resolve after Ativan.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 159 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 2 (10/4/2015, 06:00 - 10/4/2015, 14:00)

BACKGROUND: Unchanged

GENERALIZED SLOWING: Unchanged

FOCAL SLOWING: At times the right hemisphere appears more


attenuated compared with left hemisphere

PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): none


SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Nearly continuous right parasagittal (C4 max) sharp waves,

often periodic (lateralized periodic discharges (LPDs)) and

occurring once every 1-4 seconds, less periodically than on day


prior.  Rarely they occur at 3 Hz for <3 seconds followed by

rhythmic delta at 1 Hz for <5 seconds. They may reflect over the


left parasagittal region.

2. Occasional independent, sharp waves diffusely over the left

parasagittal region (F3/C3/P3)

EVENTS: No clinical (including gaze deviation/unilateral


stiffening) or electrographic events reported or detected.

HEART RATE: single EKG strip obscured/recording suboptimally



DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION



These findings are consistent with right parasagittal highly


epileptogenic discharges.

There is additional evidence of an independent epileptogenic


focus over the left hemisphere.

Lastly, this study is consistent with right hemispheric

dysfunction superimposed on moderate to severe diffuse cerebral

dysfunction.
-----------------------------------------------

FINAL IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal routine EEG due to:

1. Moderate to severe diffuse slowing


2. Background disorganization

3. Right hemisphere attenuation

4. Nearly continuous sharp-and-wave complexes over the right

central region (C4 max) every 1-3 seconds, which reflect over the


right temporal region and left central region at times

(lateralized periodic discharges, or LPDs, formerly known as


PLEDs), correlating with left gaze deviation and left hemibody

stiffening on day 1. Both the clinical and electrographic

findings improve with Ativan

4. Very frequent independent, sharp waves diffusely over the left


parasagittal region (F3/C3/P3)

5. Tachycardia



FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are concerning for highly epileptogenic right

central discharges and left parasagittal epileptogenic


discharges. There are no definite electrographic seizures.

However, the patient's clinical presentation of left gaze


deviation and stiffening on the left side on day 1 may correlate

with the


right central highly epileptogenic discharges. The clinical

findings improved following the injection of Ativan. The highly


epileptogenic discharges over the right parasagittal region are

still seen the following day, though are less prevalent.


There is additionally evidence for right hemispheric dysfunction

superimposed on moderate to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.

Tachycardia is noted on a single EKG lead.
