HISTORY:


24 y.o. female with a history of MVA, TBI with scalp edema, referred for EEG for
screening for subclinical seizures.

Her initial CT demonstrated:


1. Acute subarachnoid and subdural blood products as described above.

2. Concern for diffuse axonal injury. Attention to the region of the

right corona radiata is recommended on followup CT head.


3. Right cerebral edema with asymmetric sulcal narrowing.

She has marked R scalp edema, and had a EVD placed.

MEDICATIONS: Keppra



SEDATION:

ATIVAN, HAS received propofol and Fentanyl.



TECHNIQUE:



Bedside monitoring with 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and tactile stimulation.  Patient
was intubated and poorly responsive.  Technical limitations for this I see records include the scalp
edema on the right and challenges keeping the EKG lead






DAY 1 (05/09/2016, - 5/10/2016)



BACKGROUND:

The  background is  Continuous, it is primarily a slow, initially delta frequency pattern.  The activity is
more attenuated in the right hemisphere.  As this 24 hour section continuous, tactile stimulation of
the patient clearly produces an arousal with an increase in higher amplitude rhythmic delta.  There is
also intermittent arrhythmic theta present I frontal




Posterior dominant rhythm was not present.



The background is  reactive, and variable.



There were asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.




PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected



EKG: A single lead never worked satisfactorily


DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:


No seizures were recorded.

The focal features noted in the right hemisphere may be an artifact of the scalp edema and may not
be a true reflection of cerebral function from the right hemisphere

-----------------------------------------------------------------






DAY2  (May 10 01:00 - 5//2016, 10:00)



AEDs: fentanyl, Keppra, Precedex

Technical note: The patient is intermittently disconnected for procedures



INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

The overall background remains markedly abnormal .  It is a low-voltage, relatively slow pattern,
lacking the hallmarks of a normal awake or sleep record.  There is more beta present more so on the
left than the right and more rhythmic theta.  The right remains relatively suppressed .


As the day continues, there is more eye-opening and more alpha and theta frequency emergence
from both hemispheres left more so than right.  There is not yet, a definitive reactive alpha rhythm




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: tactile or auditory stimulation will alert the patient

SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



EKG: A single lead captured 96






-----------------------------------------------------------------


FINAL IMPRESSION:



This is abnormal video EEG due to:



1.  Initially markedly slow, improving over time with emergence of some of the normal waveforms of
an awake pattern

2. markedly slow and suppressed pattern on the right






FINAL CLINICAL  CORRELATION:



These findings indicate gradual improvement.  The reduction of sedative medications may play a
role.  The suppressed pattern on the right may be an artifact given the scalp edema.


no seizures were recorded

No epileptiform features were identified
