HISTORY:

64 y.o. female with a history of migraine headache, new onset spells, rule out
seizures.  Recurrent LOC.  Now referred for routine 1 hour  EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet,

traZODone (DESYREL) 50 mg tablet,


simvastatin (ZOCOR) 20 mg tablet,

citalopram (CELEXA) 20 mg tablet,

LORazepam (ATIVAN) 0.5 mg tablet,


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


TECHNIQUE:








A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.  There are some electrode issues
noted in the record



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.  In drowsiness, there are occasional
isolated right or left temporal theta or delta waves




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. POSTS The patient frequently transitions in and out of stage II
sleep Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

No major focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

RMTD



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Produces a small amount of slowing


Photic Stimulation: Elicits bilateral driving



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is a mildly abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG for an adult of this age due to:

1. intermittent right or left temporal slowing noted in drowsiness



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are nonspecific.  They are not uncommon in geriatric patients with underlying
cerebrovascular disease.  This patient is not yet a senior citizen.  Correlation with imaging and
clinical scenario suggested.
