HISTORY:

64 y.o. WOMAN WITH CC OF SEIZURE.  PMHX:: LEFT CVA.  RIGHT SIDE
WEAKNESS/NUMBNESS.  PT APHASIC



MEDICATIONS:


ATIVAN


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG (with limited signal) and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized mixture of alpha and
beta frequencies seen over the right, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left temporal maximal in the mid and anterior
temporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent left temporal sharps and polyspikes some maximal at F7, T3 and T5 are seen frequently.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are multiple electrographic seizures captured during this study.

EEG reveals rhythmic left temporal sharp waves with a polyspike morphology that can be maximal at
times more anterior and later more posterior which become rhythmic and monomorphic at 2Hz.
These  can last up to 1.5 minutes. There is no clear clinical correlate to the discharges. No overt HR
changes an be seen but the EKG electrode was limited.







HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



1. Left temporal electrographic status epilepticus.

2. Frequent left temporal sharps and polyspikes.






3. Continuous focal slow waves in the left temporal region maximal in the mid and anterior temporal
region.


4. Limited EKG lead.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake only routine EEG due to left temporal electrographic status epilepticus.
These findings indicate the presence of a epileptogenic focus in this region. In addition there is
continuous focal slowing in the left temporal region maximal in the mid and anterior temporal
region.  This finding is indicative of severe focal cerebral dysfunction in this region, likely structural in
origin. Patient will be placed on LTM.
