HISTORY: 70 y.o. male with a history of suspected meningoencephalitis, who remains altered.  There is a concern for subclinical seizures.    MEDICATIONS: No current facility-administered medications for this visit.  No current outpatient prescriptions on file. Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits: potassium chloride IVPB 20 mEq 100 mL magnesium sulfate IVPB 1 g 100 mL dextrose 5 % and sodium chloride 0.45 % infusion aspirin EC EC tablet 325 mg atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 40 mg famotidine (PEPCID) tablet 20 mg hydralazine (APRESOLINE) injection 20 mg amlodipine (NORVASC) tablet 10 mg metoprolol (TOPROL-XL) 24 hr tablet 25 mg thiamine (B-1) 500 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB dextrose 50% injection 25 mL dextrose 50% injection 50 mL glucagon (human recombinant) (GLUCAGEN) injection 1 mg ceftriaxone (ROCEPHIN) 2 g in dextrose 5 % 100 mL IVPB MB+ senna leaf extract (SENOKOT) syrup 176 mg docusate sodium (COLACE) liquid 100 mg sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg vancomycin (VANCOCIN) 1,000 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 250 mL IVPB MB+ white petrolatum-mineral oil (LACRI-LUBE) ophthalmic ointment 1 Application   SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG     BACKGROUND: The EEG placement is difficult due to poor patient cooperation.  Therefore, severe leads have impedances above 5 kOhm.  The posterior dominant rhythm is 9 Hz moderate amplitude alpha activity that attenuates with eye opening.  There is expected AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient.  There is persistent amplitude asymmetry in the occipital leads with higher amplitudes over the left.  Additionally, persistent polymorphic theta activity is present over the left posterior quadrant (left occipital lead predominantly)  Sleep was characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.  Sleep is not sustained and not lasting.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  None  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured heart rate of nearly 120 bpm.  IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal nearly 17 hour long term video EEG due to: Suspected mild continuous left posterior (specifically left occipital) focal slowing.  This finding is suggestive of a focal structural lesion over the left posterior quadrant.  However, given poor patient cooperation with the EEG lead application, this finding also could be artifactual.  If clinical suspicion remains, a repeat spot EEG when the patient is more cooperative, could be of benefit.  No electrographic seizures are captured.  
