HISTORY:

4 days old, term female, delivered by vacuum extraction with scalp
hematoma/ C section ,  4 post delivery  with a history of  Transient cyanosis, bradycardia,
hypoglycemia,  transient Hyperbilirubinemia, "neonatal bronze baby," referred for routine EEG for
evaluation for seizure.


Corrected gestational age 41 weeks, 1 day

MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 0.5 mL

dextrose 10% in water (D10W) 500 mL infusion

chlorhexidine 4 % liquid diluted (1:10) in sterile water for irrigation


Followed by

chlorhexidine 4 % liquid diluted (1:10) in sterile water for irrigation

[START ON 8/27/2016] chlorhexidine 4 % liquid diluted (1:10) in sterile water for irrigation



SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:

A  1 hour Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and tactile stimulation.
Neonatal montage was used.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is appropriately symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of theta
frequencies, some delta, some beta. During drowsiness,the background is continuous, with
intermittent, brief, symmetric attenuations. There is central 8 and 12 Hz activity



Sleep is characterized by a vigorous pattern. Infant has sucking movement in sleep.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Rare (2 ) left temporal sharp waves were seen



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Age appropriate frontal delta



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: tactile stimulation elicits an alerting and a mixed frequency pattern.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 123 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep neonatal EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal EEG. Appropriate developmental milestones for age are present. The two sharp
waves on the left are not clinically significant in a subject of this age.
