HISTORY:

58 y.o. female with a history of a meningioma s/p resection, with recurrence, who
presented after several seizures, now intubated, referred for routine EEG for screening for subclinical
seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) suppository 650 mg

LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg


levETIRAacetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB

heparin (5000 units/mL) injection 5,000 Units

insulin lispro (HumaLOG) injection 1-5 Units


sodium chloride 0.9 % infusion


SEDATION: recently on propofol and versed





TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is continuous and reactive but asymmetric.

The right hemisphere consists of a fairly organized mixture of sharply contoured alpha, beta, and
theta, with fragments of a posterior dominant rhythm that approaches 9 Hz.


The left hemisphere consists of a poorly organized mixture of theta, alpha, and beta, but also
continuous polymorphic delta activity, at times sharply contoured, over the fronto-temporal region.
Posterior dominant rhythm is less clearly seen.




Intermittent chew artifact is noted.


State change to a drowsiness/sleep is not captured.



There is mild to moderate generalized slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 114 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization




2. Continuous polymorphic slowing noted over the left fronto-temporal region.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of left fronto-temporal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural,
superimposed on a mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.



There was no epileptiform activity, nor any clinical or electrographic events captured during this
routine study. However, if subclinical status epilepticus remains a concern, long term EEG monitoring
is more sensitive in the detection of subclinical seizures.
