HISTORY:

76 y.o. male with a history of right cerebral and left medial temporal lobe
infarctions, admitted with dysarthria and weakness referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental
status change.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


aspirin EC EC tablet 325 mg

[START ON 11/4/2016] aspirin EC EC tablet 325 mg

pantoprazole (PROTONIX) EC tablet 40 mg


docusate sodium (COLACE) capsule 100 mg

senna (SENOKOT) tablet 1 tablet

hydrALAZINE (APRESOLINE) injection 10 mg


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 10 mg

FLU vaccine qs 2016-17 (36 mos+)(PF) injection 0.5 mL








SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A bedside portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.  The
patient is experiencing dry eyes and blinks frequently




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a somewhat disorganized symmetric
mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.7 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.
There is a small excess amount of theta noted in maximal wakefulness



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Occasional, shifting focal slowing is present.  There are isolated bursts of mixed theta delta noted
from either hemisphere, a bit more remarkable in early drowsiness



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:none



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Verbal stimulation produces an alerting  improvement in overall
organization



EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 61 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:




This is a mildly abnormal record, performed at the bedside for subject of this age

1.  Shifting temporal slowing and mild disorganization



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are not uncommon in the context of ischemic cerebrovascular disease.  There were
no strongly lateralizing features and no epileptiform features.  If this patient is thought to have
seizures, please consider a more prolonged study
