HISTORY:

57 y.o. male with a history of intermittent episodes of lightheadedness followed by
left facial and head tingling sensation over the past 3 years, referred for routine EEG for evaluation
of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


fluticasone (FLONASE) 50 mcg/actuation nasal spray, INHALE 2 SPRAYS INTO THE NOSE DAILY.

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 40 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 2 times daily (before meals). 30
minutes before breakfast and supper.


OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. Can try increasing by 1/5
tab at bed


pravastatin (PRAVACHOL) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth daily.

levalbuterol (XOPENEX HFA) 45 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 1-2 puffs into the lungs every 4 hours
as needed for Wheezing.


betamethasone dipropionate 0.05 % cream, Apply  topically 2 times daily.

calcium carbonate (TUMS) 200 mg calcium (500 mg) chewable tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.




hydrochlorothiazide (HYDRODIURIL) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth daily.

PROAIR HFA 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs 4 times daily.


ADVAIR DISKUS 250-50 mcg/dose diskus inhaler, USE 1 INHALATION ORALLY    EVERY 12
HOURS
clobetasol (TEMOVATE) 0.05 % external solution, Apply  topically as needed.


Calcipotriene 0.005 % Soln, as needed.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG, hyperventilation, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9-10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Occasional left greater than right temporal wicket activity was seen during drowsiness.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:





Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 75 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



A normal interictal EEG does exclude the diagnosis of epilepsy. If clinically indicated, a prolonged
EEG or ambulatory recording may provide additional information.
