HISTORY:

51 y.o. male with a history of right MCA stroke, seizure disorder, found unresponsive
with bowel and bladder incontinence, with subsequent delirium presumed secondary to alcohol
abuse, referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS:

Dilantin



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel portable electroencephalogram (EEG) at the bedside was recorded using
the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background demonstrated well-developed 30 uV 10.5 Hz activity posteriorly on the left
with a poorly developed right hemispheric posterior rhythm. Nearly continuous irregular low to
medium and medium voltage 3-5 Hz activity was seen over the right hemisphere. Low amplitude
frontal and central beta activity was seen. Moderate amounts of muscle, eye blink and movement
artifact were noted.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) right frontotemporal sharp waves and spikes were seen at F8-T2.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Right hemispheric irregular slowing and poorly developed waking posterior alpha rhythm.

2. Frequent right frontotemporal spike and sharp wave discharges.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of a prominent functional disturbance of activity involving the
right hemisphere with irritative discharges in the right frontotemporal region. In a patient with clinical
history of seizures, the above findings would support a localization related seizure mechanism
originating in the right frontotemporal area.
