HISTORY:

86 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy and

right hemiparesis who was admitted with UTI/sepsis and heart


failure, now referred for routine EEG for assessment after he was

found unresponsive and then with intermittent right gaze

deviation, in the setting of subtherapeutic phenytoin level



MEDICATIONS: phenytoin 100 mg q12h, s/p Ativan 3 mg



SEDATION: as above


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The record opens to a fairly organized mixture of alpha, beta,

and delta. There is no definite posterior dominant rhythm.


There is continuous left hemispheric polymorphic slowing. Further

interpretation of the background is somewhat limited by multiple

seizures (see below) and then administration of Ativan. Following

Ativan, beta frequencies increase in prevalence.



During drowsiness, further background slowing is seen.



Sleep transients are not captured.


Mild-moderate generalized slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Interictally there are left centro-temporal (T3>C3 max)

sharply contoured delta discharges, frequently occurring at 1 Hz

for runs up to 6 seconds (PLEDS / LPDs / periodic lateralized

epileptiform discharges). At times this pattern more closely


resembles rhythmic delta activity (RDA) over the same region.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.




EVENTS:

22 seizures are detected electrographically during this study.

Prior to administration of Ativan 1 mg at 13:57, seizures range


from 29-46 sec in duration. Following Ativan administration,

seizures evolve less clearly and are briefer in duration, ranging


from 6-36 sec in duration.



CLINICALLY: patient appears drowsy with, at times, slight right

gaze preference/deviation. He intermittently yawns. He follows


commands on the left but not the right. He does not speak

interictally or ictally.


EEG: there is onset of sharply contoured rhythmic delta at 3.5-4

Hz, maximal over the left centro-temporal region (T3>C3), but

with broad field involving the left hemisphere. Ictal activity

evolves by slowing in frequency to 3 Hz, increasing or decreasing


in amplitude, becoming more sharply contoured, and spreading to

reflect over right hemisphere before decreasing in amplitude and


increasing to theta activity with admixed spikes.


HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal

organization

2. Continuous left hemispheric polymorphic slowing


3. Left centro-temporal periodic discharges and rhythmic delta

activity


4. 22 electroclinical seizures that broadly involve the left

hemisphere but appear to evolve best over the left

centro-temporal region



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are diagnostic for localization related epilepsy


of left centro-temporal origin and indicate ongoing seizures.

There is additionally evidence for left hemispheric dysfunction

superimposed on mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction,

which may be structural or physiologic in etiology.


These findings were discussed with the treating team.
