HISTORY:

90 y.o. female with a history of NPH,  R pontine meningioma with mass effect, L
frontal encephalomalacia, R gaze deviation and obtundation referred for continuous video EEG for
screening for subclinical seizures.  The patient had several episodes of R gaze deviation on the
afternoon of the 8th, prior to LTM.  She received Ativan and phenytoin for these symptoms.




MEDICATIONS:

Keppra, Phenytoin



SEDATION: Ativan



TECHNIQUE:

A bedside portable continuous Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded
using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal/ tactile stimulation.
Seizure and spike detection software was used.  The patient is somnolent, but not intubated.



_______________________

May 8-9, 2016


EEG BACKGROUND:


The background is abnormal, asymmetric and  characterized by a low voltage suppressed pattern on
the right. The left is primarily 4-5 theta and delta activity, sharply contoured


Sleep was characterized by an increase in slowing, most notable on the left. By the 9th, additional
sleep patterns included beta, more remarkable on the left.


Generalized slowing is present.

Focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Rare T3, C3 sharp waves



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Tactile stimulation elicits an increase in theta/delta on the right.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of  96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead. Irregular.

IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal LTM  EEG due to:

1. Markedly slow and lower voltage pattern on the right

2. Slow but theta background on the left with intermittent sharp waves



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings  are suggestive of a potentially epileptiform focus on the left, not as prominent as in
the baseline . The right hemisphere is markedly slow.




-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 2 (May 9 06:00 - 5/10/2016, 10:00)


AEDs: Keppra, Phenytoin, Depakote


Technical note:


Patient was moved from one room to the other.  The EEG was taken off line and in that transition,
the video was briefly lost.


INTERICTAL BACKGROUND:

The background is abnormal, asymmetric and  characterized by a low voltage suppressed pattern on
the right. The left is primarily 4-5 theta and delta activity, sharply contoured


Sleep was characterized by an increase in slowing, most notable on the left. By the 10th, additional
sleep patterns included  Spindle and  beta, more remarkable on the left.  In wakefulness, by the 10th,
there is a more well-developed theta pattern noted in wakefulness on the left.  The right hemisphere
also demonstrates frontocentral beta by the morning of the 10th



Generalized slowing is present.

Focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Rare (<1hour) subtle underlying left central parietal sharp waves, one at T5.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Tactile stimulation serves to demonstrate an awake pattern.

SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



EKG: A single lead captured  90 BPM



Of note, by the end of this section of the record, well-defined wake and sleep patterns were noted the
patient is more awake at times.




-----------------------------------------------------------------



FINAL IMPRESSION:


This is abnormal 48 hour video EEG due to:



1.initial pattern which is markedly slow bilaterally, right more so than left

2. improvement to a moderately slow pattern on the left persistently somewhat suppressed on the
right , until the morning of the 10th at which point the breach rhythm on the right starts to emerge
there is a pattern reaching data from the right central region.



3. Rare sharp waves, Left centroparietal, less prominent than the final days of the EEG recording





FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings support a structural process on the right .  There were a few sharp waves from the left.
No seizures were recorded .



