HISTORY:

45 y.o. male with a history of seizures out of sleep (onset: 2014, last: 2015 -
during wakefulness) referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 250 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 250 mg by mouth daily.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but
suboptimal.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Suboptimal organization


CLINICAL CORRELATION:




These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
