HISTORY:

55 y.o. male with a history of cerebral palsy referred for routine EEG for
screening for subclinical seizures.



MEDICATIONS: vitamin D, Singulair



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically unsatisfactory
record due to abundant artifact over the left temporal chain as well as very frequent artifact over the
bilateral frontal regions. The study included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:








The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


There is very frequent bi-frontal spikey waveforms with duration <20 msec. Based on morphology and
lack of well defined field, these waveforms are felt most consistent with artifact.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake only, technically limited routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected. Spikey waveforms as described above are most consistent with artifact.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal, limited, awake only routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.


If clinically warranted, a recording with sleep may be helpful.
