HISTORY:

21 y.o. female with a history of 1 seizure as a child and other 7/13/2015 (pt
denies any new seizures) referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


ferrous sulfate 325 mg (65 mg iron) tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

docusate sodium (COLACE) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily as needed.

Prenatal Multivit-Ca-Min-Fe-FA (PRENATAL VITAMIN) Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha, beta, and excess theta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but
suboptimal.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing with bursts of sharply contoured theta activity are
seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric POSTS, vertex
waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Occasionally theta activity appears more prominently over the left temporal region and appears
quasi-rhythmic. This may represent a benign variant (rhythmic mid-temporal drowsiness / rhythmic
temporal theta bursts of drowsiness).




ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed in
sleep, induces scant symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:




1. Excess theta in wake with suboptimal organization



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.

Prominence of theta waves over the left temporal region in drowsiness may be consistent with a
benign variant (rhythmic mid-temporal drowsiness / rhythmic temporal theta bursts of drowsiness).
