HISTORY:

55 y.o. MAN with left MCA stroke and change of mental status.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


atropine injection 0.4 mg

valproate (DEPACON) 500 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB

aspirin suppository 300 mg


famotidine (PF) (PEPCID) injection 20 mg

senna (SENOKOT) tablet 1 tablet

docusate sodium (COLACE) capsule 100 mg


enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg




SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a alpha and theta activity, organized
in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive
8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Continuous  polymorphic delta activity is present in the left fronto central region with an associated
attenuation of faster frequencies.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


1. Continuous left fronto-central focal slow waves an attenuation of faster frequencies.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:




This is an abnormal awake and drowsy routine EEG due to continuous left fronto-central focal slow
waves, this finding is consistent with the known stroke.


In addition there is mild diffuse background slowing and slow alpha rhythm.  These findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
