HISTORY:

37 y.o. female with a history of prenatal

stroke, lifelong right-sided numbness.  Childhood convulsions at


age 5.  Recent recurrent seizure, referred for routine EEG for

characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

ENDOCET 5-325 mg per tablet,


ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 800 mg tablet,

amoxicillin-clavulanate (AUGMENTIN) 875-125 mg per tablet,

clotrimazole-betamethasone (LOTRISONE) cream,


metroNIDAZOLE (FLAGYL) 500 mg tablet,

miconazole (MICOTIN) 2 % vaginal cream,

traMADol (ULTRAM) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth every 6 hours


as needed for Pain.





No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.  The patient is relatively drowsy

and transitions from wakefulness to drowsiness.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles, POSTS and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Was not performed


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  Given the history

described above, a more prolonged study may be helpful in

capturing focal features or epileptiform abnormalities.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.
