HISTORY:

66 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy and noncompliance with AEDs, now with
seizure and confusion, referred for routine EEG for management of seizure exacerbation.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Facility-Administered Medications:

aspirin chewable tablet 81 mg

atorvastatin (LIPITOR) tablet 10 mg


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 500 mg

silver sulfADIAZINE (SILVADENE) 1 % cream 1 Application



Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

LEVETIRACETAM (KEPPRA PO), Take  by mouth.

UNKNOWN TO PATIENT, Indications: unknown insulin per EMS



SEDATION: None




TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha, beta, and excess theta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR) that is 7-8 Hz at best. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present but suboptimal.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles
and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Occasional bitemporal synchronous and independent polymorphic slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) left fronto-temporal (Fp1/F7/T1/Fz max) sharp-and-wave complexes,
which at times reflect over the right frontal (Fp2/F8) region


2. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) right fronto-temporal (Fp2/F8/Fp1 max) sharp-and-wave complexes


3. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left temporal (T3 max) spike-and-wave


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 102 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.






IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Occasional bitemporal synchronous and independent polymorphic slowing


3. Frequent left fronto-temporal (Fp1/F7/T1/Fz max) sharp-and-wave complexes, which at times
reflect over the right frontal (Fp2/F8) region

4. Occasional right fronto-temporal (Fp2/F8/Fp1 max) sharp-and-wave complexes


5. Occasional left temporal (T3 max) spike-and-wave




CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of multifocal epileptogenic potential as detailed above.
Additionally, there is etiologically nonspecific evidence of bitemporal dysfunction and mild diffuse
cerebral dysfunction.
