HISTORY:

20 y.o. male with a history of seizures.





MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2

times daily.




No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was




recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9-9.5


Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Occasional generalized frontally predominant spikes with

aftergoing slow waves are captured.  They are more prominent

during drowsiness.



Multiple seizures are captured.  At the end of the recording the

patient is tested during these events by asking to continuously


count regardless of presence or absence of abnormal activity.

Clinically, patient always pauses counting~ 2-3 seconds into the

run.  On a single occasion he resumes counting correctly at the

end of the run.  On other occasions he remains silent for another


1-3 seconds after the run is over.

Electrographically, seizures are characterized by generalized


frontally predominant spikes and polyspikes with aftergoing slow

waves.  These discharges occur at the repetition rate of ~ 5-7


Hz.  They rapidly slow down to ~ 3 Hz spike and wave discharges.

The average duration of a seizure is ~ 5-7 seconds with the


longest seizure lasting ~ 9 seconds.

Based on the video review, it does not appear that the patient is


aware of these seizure.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional


abnormalities.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


Spike and wave - occasional - generalized

Seizures - frequent- generalized- clinical



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy EEG due to occasional

generalized spike and wave discharges and multiple 5-9 seconds


generalized seizures that are clinically correlated with arrest

of behavior (counting in this case).


In the proper clinical context, this EEG is suggestive of

idiopathic generalized epilepsy.



Patient was made aware of the findings upon the EEG completion


and urged to follow-up closely with a neurologist.
