CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 64-year-old well woman of unknown


handedness, status post lap choly, subsequent hemorrhagic stroke

with craniectomy and EVD, history of right frontal subdural

hematoma, left frontal ventriculostomy, pneumocele, large


intra-axial right frontal hematoma with vasogenic edema and shift

of 11 mm.   Cholecystectomy August 2nd.  ICH on August 24th



MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Reglan, Lipitor, phenytoin, mannitol, and

hydralazine.



INTRODUCTION:  A 20-minute digital video EEG was performed at

bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode

placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient was relatively


somnolent throughout the EEG.


DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  This is a markedly abnormal pattern


within intra-hemispheric asymmetry.  From the right hemisphere,




the EEG is medium amplitude with a mixture of theta and smaller

amounts of beta frequency activity.  It is somewhat slower in the


right frontal central region and there is clear attenuation of

faster activity in the right frontal central region.  The left


hemisphere demonstrates a higher amplitude pattern, congruent

with the breach rhythm.  There are sharply contoured slowing.  In

addition to the breach rhythm, there is a T1/F7 phase reversal

and occasional left mid to anterior temporal sharp waves and some


FP1 and F7 as well.  There is intermittent accentuation of faster

frequency activity in the left hemisphere, but no definitive


seizures.


Heart rate:  110.



IMPRESSION:  Markedly abnormal EEG due to:

1. A slower pattern noted on the right with right frontal


slowing.

2. Sharply contoured slowing with sharp waves noted in the left

frontal and temporal regions.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No seizures were recorded.  This EEG

supports a bihemispheric disturbance of cerebral function,


congruent with neuroimaging.  There are sharp waves in this

record for a comatose patient, thus  EEG monitoring may be of

value.  The house officer was contacted with the results.


