HISTORY:

21 y.o. female with a history of suspected localization related epilepsy arising from
the left frontal region based on semiology referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


azelastine 0.15 % (205.5 mcg) Spray, Non-Aerosol,

clonazepam (KLONOPIN) 1 mg disintegrating tablet,

fluticasone (FLONASE) 50 mcg/actuation nasal spray,


oxcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 600 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth at bedtime.

OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth at bedtime.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:





A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is a normal awake and asleep 1-hour EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep 1-hour EEG.

A normal EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
