HISTORY:

91 y.o. female with a history of recurrent

strokelike symptoms, change in mental status referred for routine


EEG for assessment of mental status change.  Chronic underlying

bilateral ischemic cerebrovascular disease



MEDICATIONS:

SINGULAIR, ATAVASTIN, NORVASC



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A bed side portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram

(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with

T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a


technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of




EKG and verbal stimulation.  The patient was very drowsy and much

of this record captures normal stage II sleep



EEG BACKGROUND:


Wakefulness is limited, but the background is characterized by

the presence of a low amplitude symmetric mixture of alpha, theta

and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz

posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior


gradient of frequency and amplitude is difficult to identify.

The patient seems to be very sleepy and there is excess theta


noted in the limited wakefulness. Mu activity was noted but

testing was not performed to confirm this


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.  There is prominent theta noted in


drowsiness


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and


K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: There is reactivity to visual, auditory,


And tactile stimuli.




EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. excess theta



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings are nonspecific, particularly in the context of

this patient's drowsiness.  Portions of the record are remarkably

well organized for an adult of this age.  Consideration for


repeat study when she is feeling well he be helpful to more

completely evaluate her awake background
