HISTORY:

63 y.o. male with a history of necrotizing

colitis, requiring Ativan for sedation referred for routine EEG


for assessment of mental status change.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

losartan (COZAAR) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth daily.

pravastatin (PRAVACHOL) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.


furosemide (LASIX) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth 2 times

daily.

methadone (DOLOPHINE) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth every 4


hours as needed for Pain.

alprazolam (XANAX) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth 4 times daily

as needed for Sleep.






current facility-administered medications for this visit.

Flagyl


SEDATION: Ativan



TECHNIQUE:

A bedside portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram

(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with

T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a


technically challenging record and included a single channel of

EKG and verbal stimulation.  The patient is under a warming


blanket


EEG BACKGROUND:

The background is markedly abnormal.  It is unfortunate,


partially observed by muscle and movement artifact.  There is a

pattern of rhythmic 3-5 Hz activity.  Stimulation of the patient


produces an alerting, with an increase in beta.  Despite the

markedly slow background, the patient does follow some commands

and looks from side to side

Significant generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

This is a very sharply contoured background but there is no

definitive epileptiform activity



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Stimulation of the patient produces both

an increase in beta and an increase in muscle



EVENTS:

There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal ICU   routine EEG due to:

1. replacement of normal background with a mixed theta delta

pattern.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This EEG supports a diffuse disturbance of cerebral function.


Although the EEG is markedly slow, the patient is interactive.

These features are nonspecific but are not uncommon in a toxic or

metabolic encephalopathy This patient's medications may play a

role in the slowing described above
