HISTORY:

44 y.o. male with a history of a recent event, date not provided of either seizure,
syncope or nervous breakdown.  Patient now very anxious about losing his license referred for routine
EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, TK 1 T PO QD


metFORMIN (GLUCOPHAGE) 500 mg tablet, TK 1 T PO  BID

losartan (COZAAR) 100 mg tablet, TK 1 T PO QD

TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG , HV and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:








The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


Sleep is not sustained

No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces scant
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 48-60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.  This seems to be irregular at times

IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.  The EKG lead demonstrates bradycardia and at times an irregular heart rate



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.  Clinical
correlation, and evaluation of the bradycardia may be of value
