HISTORY:

62 y.o. female with a history of multiple episodes of generalized hand
shaking w/ eyes rolling upward, and a reported stroke in 5/2016, referred for routine EEG for
evaluation of paroxysmal events.




MEDICATIONS: Keppra, Antivert, Lipitor, Zoloft, Coumadin, Zantac, Protonix, Trazadone, Percocet,
Ativan, Advair, Cipro



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:






The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




No generalized slowing is present.  There is rarely polymorphic theta slowing over the left temporal
region, which is within normal limits for a patient in this age group.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.

