HISTORY:

56 y.o. female with a history of events of expressive difficulties, referred for routine
EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 100 mg capsule,

calcium-vitamin D (OSCAL) 250 (625)-125 mg-unit per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

betamethasone dipropionate 0.05 % ointment,


NITROSTAT 0.4 mg SL tablet, place 1 tablet under the tongue if needed every 5 minutes for chest
pain for 3 doses IF NO RELIEF AFTER 3RD DOSE CALL PRESCRIBER OR 911.


meclizine (ANTIVERT) 12.5 mg tablet,

acetazolamide (DIAMOX) 250 mg tablet,

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth daily.


tiZANidine (ZANAFLEX) 2 mg tablet, Take 2 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed.

PEG 3350-electrolytes (GOLYTELY) 236-22.74-6.74 gram Recon Soln, Drink entire bottle the night
before the procedure


colchicine 0.6 mg tablet, Take 0.6 mg by mouth daily.


indomethacin (INDOCIN) 25 mg capsule, Take 25 mg by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.


TETRAHYDROZOLINE HCL/ZN SULF (EYE DROPS OP), Apply  to eye.

aspirin 81 mg chewable tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.


butalbital-acetaminophen-caffeine (FIORICET) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 4 hours as
needed.

multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


Calcium Citrate-Vitamin D3 500-200 mg-unit Chew, Take 500 mg by mouth 3 times daily.
Indications: Hypocalcemia

diclofenac (VOLTAREN) 25 mg EC tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth 2 times daily. Indications: Arthritis


simvastatin (ZOCOR) 20 mg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth once daily

LORazepam (ATIVAN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet ~30-60 minutes prior to the scan. May take another
tablet right before the scan.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




Diffuse excess beta activity is noted.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


A single left posterior temporal sharp transient that has a broad field is captured early in the
recording.

Nearly continuous moderate amplitude EMG artifact is present over T3 lead.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an unremarkable  awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic
events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an unremarkable  awake and drowsy  routine EEG.


Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.



Left midtemporal region (primarily T3 lead region) is not well evaluated due to presence of nearly
continuous moderate amplitude EMG artifact.  This finding combined with excessive beta activity
makes the background appear very sharply contoured over that region.  Thus making interpretation of
that region less reliable, especially for epileptiform discharges.




A single left posterior temporal sharp transient is of unknown clinical significance.
