HISTORY:

69 y.o. female with seizures and breast cancer

metastatic to the brain, referred for routine EEG.



MEDICATIONS: Keppra 500 mg BID



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well




organized and symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies,

with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm


(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present. There is an excess of delta frequencies,


bitemporally predominant, in wakefulness.


During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior

dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. Delta


frequencies seen in wakefulness become more prominent and more

broadly distributed.



Sleep is not captured.


There is mild to moderate generalized slowing.


There is frequent bilateral temporal polymorphic slowing, both

synchronous and independent.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.


EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal Awake and drowsy routine EEG due to:

1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing, with excess of delta


frequencies

2. Frequent bilateral temporal polymorphic slowing, both

synchronous and independent



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of bitemporal cerebral


dysfunction superimposed on mild to moderate diffuse cerebral

dysfunction.
