HISTORY:

68 y.o. female with a history of R frontal DVA, arachnoid cyst, LBBB s/p
pacemaker, and cardiomyopathy referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events:
episodes of head shaking without loss of consciousness.




MEDICATIONS:

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits:

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg

docusate sodium (COLACE) capsule 100 mg

LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg


enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg







SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and excess beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9-10 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




There is near continuous 4-5 Hz electrode artifact occurring in isolation over O1 and O2 electrodes.



Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Occasional bitemporal sharp waves (T3/T4 max) seen independently, at times occurring in runs,
with morphology most consistent with a benign variant (wicket waves)



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes. Tech noted head tremor during this time (see below under



EVENTS:


Tech notes head tremor during photic stimulation. On video a


HEART RATE:



A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake only routine EEG. The head movements described by the tech during photic
stimulation appear most consistent with tremor, and movement artifact correlates during this time.


Bitemporal sharp waves as described above are most consistent with a benign variant (wicket waves).



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake-only routine EEG.  The artifact described above is most consistent with head
tremor.



Excess beta can be seen in the setting of medications such as benzodiazepines.
