DATE OF STUDY: 05/12/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy





HISTORY:

a 65 y.o. male with a history of schizophrenia and probable prior stroke.  Little is
known about the patient was found down in a boarding home and had fever, right-sided weakness
and change in mental status referred for routine EEG for screening for subclinical seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Zyprexa, nifedipine, no seizure medicines

Ceftriaxone



SEDATION: none



TECHNIQUE:

A bed side portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is characterized by a remarkable asymmetry.  On the left there is the
presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and
reactive 8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of
frequency and amplitude is present.



The right hemisphere demonstrates significant attenuation of faster frequency activity with a lower
voltage delta pattern


focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


In this 22 minute EEG, multiple electrographic seizures were identified.  These began with 12 Hz
activity noted in the right occipital parietal region which gradually evolves.  There is theta frequency
activity and a right occipital sharp waves noted at the end of the seizure.  Seizure duration is
typically 1-2 minutes.  Patient made lift his head, lift his right arm or answer any question with 2105.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.




EVENTS:

There are multiple clinical / electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. focal status epilepticus with a complex partial type seizure


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are discussed with the clinical team.  The patient was started on antiepileptic drug
therapy and moved to the ICU for EEG monitoring














































































