DATE OF STUDY: 04/29/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep




HISTORY:

a 23 y.o. female with a history of lupus nephritis, who had meningitis last month,
now presenting with similar symptoms of fever, chills, headache, and also facial twisting to the right.
Referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events and assessment of mental status
change.



MEDICATIONS: Ceftriaxone


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically difficult record;
the technician noted the patient was agitated and was wearing braids, making for a difficult hook-up.
There was frequent muscle artifact affecting almost all channels at various parts of the study.  The
study included a single channel of EKG.





EEG BACKGROUND:







The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha, beta, and excess of delta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is
present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes.




Mild to moderate generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Frequent runs of 1-1.5 Hz frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity (FIRDA, also
known as frontal GRDA) lasting < 10 seconds are seen in wake and sleep.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 114 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep, technically challenging, routine EEG due to:

1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization


2. Frequent runs of 1-1.5 Hz frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity (FIRDA, also
known as frontal GRDA) lasting < 10 seconds are seen in wake and sleep




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of a mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.




Frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity (GRDA, also known as FIRDA) is a
nonspecific but pathologic finding that is most commonly seen in toxic-metabolic states, but may
also be seen with deep structural lesions or increased intracranial pressure. Clinical correlation is
advised.





















































