HISTORY:

25 y.o. female with a history of excessive

daytime sleepiness and headaches.




MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times

daily.


methocarbamol (ROBAXIN) 500 mg tablet,

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 40 mg capsule,

diazepam (VALIUM) 5 mg tablet,


PARoxetine (PAXIL) 30 mg tablet,

benztropine (COGENTIN) 0.5 mg tablet,

celecoxib (CELEBREX) 100 mg capsule,


minocycline (MINOCIN,DYNACIN) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by




mouth daily.

ADDERALL XR 15 mg Capsule, Sust. Release 24 hr,



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.


Patient rapidly transitions from wakefulness to sleep.



Diffuse excess theta activity is present.



Excess beta activity is captured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180


seconds with fair cooperation and produces no effect.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of ~60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

- mild diffuse slowing

- stage II sleep


- No epileptiform discharges

- excess beta




CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep 27 minute EEG due to mild


diffuse slowing.

This finding is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction,


which is etiologically nonspecific, but, in this patient could be

related to excessive drowsiness (given the fact that she very


rapidly transitions from wakefulness to sleep).

Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication


effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.

The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not


rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.
