HISTORY:

24 y.o. female with a history of ADD, chronic daily headaches, and
seizures, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, 1 BID x 14 days, then 1 in AM 2 in PM  X 14 days then 2 BID

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


metoclopramide (REGLAN) 10 mg tablet, 1 at the onset of a severe headache

diphenhydrAMINE (BENADRYL) 25 mg capsule, One at the onset of severe headache, with one
reglan tablet


Magic Mouthwash 5 mL, Take 5 mLs by mouth as needed (swish and spit, for sore tongue, as
needed, 1-2 times per day).


naproxen (NAPROSYN) 500 mg tablet, Take one at onset of HA- no more than 10 per month, no use
of Motrin with this



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.






SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


During wakefulness, a large amount of frontocentral low to medium amplitude beta activity was seen
along with prominent muscle artifact. Poorly organized low to medium amplitude 7-9 Hz activity was
seen posteriorly. The patient was drowsy or asleep during significant portions of the tracing. During
early transition to drowsiness, occasional bursts of medium to high amplitude generalized 3-5 Hz
activity were seen, likely representing hypnagogic hypersynchrony.




In addition during drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the
posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Was poorly tolerated and was aborted prematurely.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:




A heart rate of 64 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep one hour EEG due to:


1. Mild diffuse background slowing and disorganization during wakefulness.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



The above changes indicate a mild bilateral hemispheric functional disturbance such as that seen
with a variety of mild generalized encephalopathies of various possible etiologies. No clinical or
electrical seizures and no definite pathologic paroxysmal epileptiform discharges were recorded.
Previously noted right posterior quadrant slowing during routine EEG in July was not apparent in
today's recording.
