HISTORY:

67 y.o. female with Acute left thalamic and right

right frontal subcortical white


matter foci of acute infarction. Also subacute to chronic right

cerebellar infarction. Chronic bilateral PCA occipital cortical

Infarctions, referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental


status change.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

ferrous sulfate 325 mg (65 mg iron) tablet, Take 325 mg by mouth

daily (with breakfast).


fentaNYL (DURAGESIC) 75 mcg/hr, Place 1 patch onto the skin every

72 hours.

fluticasone (FLONASE) 50 mcg/actuation nasal spray, 2 sprays by


Each Nare route daily.




tiotropium (SPIRIVA) 18 mcg inhalation capsule, Inhale 18 mcg

into the lungs daily.


oxybutynin (DITROPAN-XL) 5 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth

daily.


montelukast (SINGULAIR) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth

nightly.

metformin (GLUCOPHAGE) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1,000 mg by mouth 2

times daily (with meals).


digoxin (LANOXIN) 125 mcg tablet, Take 125 mcg by mouth daily.

diphenhydrAMINE (BENADRYL) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth


nightly as needed for Sleep.

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

budesonide-formoterol (SYMBICORT) 160-4.5 mcg/actuation inhaler,

Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs 2 times daily.


lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by

mouth daily.


atorvastatin (LIPITOR) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth

daily.

isosorbide mononitrate (IMDUR) 30 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 1 tablet

by mouth daily.


clopidogrel (PLAVIX) 75 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

diltiazem (CARDIZEM CD) 300 mg 24 hr capsule, Take 1 capsule by


mouth daily.

aspirin 81 mg EC tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.


And current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A bedside portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram

(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with


T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a

technically limited record and included a single channel of EKG


and auditory stimulation.  The patient was very tremulous and

there was a lot of muscle artifact


EEG BACKGROUND:

Underneath the muscle artifact, the waking background is


characterized by the presence of a  symmetric mixture of alpha

and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7.5Hertz


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior

gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  There is excess

4 Hz theta noted in the background.  There is a glimpse of

shifting delta noted when the muscle artifact drops out


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation  and

diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured


Modest generalized slowing is present.


Intermittent shifting focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Tactile and auditory stimulation resulted

in eye movement and an increase in alpha frequency activity


EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:


1. modest background slowing

2.  Excess theta


3. mildly slow alpha rhythm

4. shifting slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings are nonspecific but supported by hemispheric

process.  Opioid use can contribute to the background slowing.

Muscle artifact might obscure focal slowing and epileptiform

features
