HISTORY:

35 y.o. male with a history of hemophilia,

HCV, and possible seizures vs convulsive syncope referred for


routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS:


aminocaproic acid (AMICAR) 250 mg/mL (25 %) solution,

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily. Start one at bed for three days and then one twice a


day


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a




NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of low amplitude alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal

beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior

gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and


reactive 10.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which

attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves and sleep spindles. Slow

wave sleep was not captured.


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric

background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) produces bilateral symmetric photic

driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no


clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.


Of note this the 2nd normal routine EEG for this patient.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.
