HISTORY:

66 y.o. male with a history of intracranial hemorrhage in the setting of a
motorcycle accident (wearing helmet) referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status
change.


MEDICATIONS: Keppra



SEDATION: propofol



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically difficult record
due to abundant muscle artifact affecting both temporal chains.  The study included a single
channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The background is continuous and consists of disorganized theta, delta, and admixed faster
frequencies.






There is no posterior dominant rhythm.  There is no clear reactivity/variability/state change, but
noxious stimulation and passive eye opening movements are not administered. The tech does note
that patient is continuous moving and "won't sit still."


At times there is subtle attenuation of faster frequencies over the right parasagittal region.




Moderate generalized slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 102 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal, technically limited, asleep only routine EEG due to:

1. Moderate generalized slowing and background disorganization

2. Intermittent subtle attenuation of faster frequencies over the right parasagittal region



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


Attenuation of faster frequencies over the right parasagittal region may be seen with cortical injury in
that area, or alternatively may be associated with factors that increase the recording distance
between the cerebrum and recording electrodes, such as scalp hematoma, subdural hematoma, or
epidural hematoma - correlation with imaging study is suggested.
