DATE OF STUDY: 04/08/2016

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: 

EEG TYPE: Wada - activation test for hemispheric function, with

continuous electrographic EEG monitoring, physician present

throughout the study 




HISTORY:


a 47 y.o. female with a history of medically

refractory epilepsy referred for Wada test with continuous EEG

recording  for delineation of cerebral function



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


Lacosamide (VIMPAT) 150 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times

daily.

ASCENSIA CONTOUR Strip,


levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 1.5 tablets by mouth

2 times daily.

eslicarbazepine (APTIOM) 400 mg Tablet, Take 2,000 mg by mouth


daily. 4 in AM and 1 in PM




metFORMIN (GLUCOPHAGE) 850 mg tablet, Take 850 mg by mouth 2

times daily (with meals).


diazepam (VALIUM) 2 mg tablet, 1 as needed for cluster of

seizures


eslicarbazepine (APTIOM) 400 mg Tablet, Take 2,000 mg by mouth

daily. Take 4 in AM 1 in PM- patient takes study not prescribed

medicine

UNABLE TO FIND, Eslicarbazepine 400 mg tabs: 4 in AM and 1 in PM



Current facility-administered medications for this visit: 125 mg


amobarbital was injected into each carotid



SEDATION: see above



TECHNIQUE:


Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded

using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and

utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory

record and included a single channel of EKG.  The TUH standard


intraoperative montage was utilized.  Recording includes a brief

baseline (6 minutes) followed by continuous recording throughout


the procedure.

Angiogram:Please see final report.

Left carotid injection: No cross filling of the anterior cerebral

artery.  No filling of the posterior cerebral artery.


Right carotid injection: No cross filling of the anterior

cerebral artery.  Persistent fetal circulation with filling of


the right posterior cerebral artery was noted

EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.



No generalized slowing is present.


Intermittent left temporal focal slowing is present.

Brief sleep was recorded in the 20 minute time period between the


2 injections.

Wada test:

Left carotid injection: Injection of 125 mg amobarbital into the

left carotid at 8:41 produces unilateral focal slowing in the


left hemisphere within 7 seconds of injection.  The patient

demonstrated a right hemiparesis and transient aphasia Features


of the pattern include prominent rhythmic mixed delta and theta,

most prominent in the left temporal and posterior temporal

region.  The focal slowing persists through presentation of 9

items and the clinical testing that follows.


As the focal slowing resolves, there is prominent beta noted in

the left hemisphere.  EEG returns to its baseline with


intermittent left focal slowing at 8:54:18.  Memory testing was performed after the study returned to
baseline with presentation of the nine items.

Score 3


Right carotid injection: Injection of 125 mg amobarbital into the

right carotid at 09:25 AM produces unilateral focal slowing from

the right hemisphere at 9:26:12.  The patient demonstrated a left


hemiparesis and dysarthria Testing of the 9 items follows.  The

EEG continues to demonstrate focal slowing in the right

hemisphere again prominent in the posterior quadrant throughout


the testing.  Focal slowing gradually resolves and as it does,

there is prominent background beta.  EEG returns to baseline at

9:38:06 and testing of the 9 items follows.



Score: 1

HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION:


EEG monitoring during these carotid amobarbital testing

demonstrated unilateral slowing from each hemisphere.



During that time, 3 objects 3 words and 3 designs were presented

to test the patient's memory.


Left hemisphere dominance for language. Memory better supported

using the right hemisphere


Please see the neuropsychological report for more detailed

analysis of the results.





















































