HISTORY:

This is a 37 y.o. right handed male admitted electively (in other words, scheduled admission) for
continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG) monitoring with a history of: paroxysmal events of
unclear etiology. After minor TBI patient developed seizures characterized by anxiety, then HA,then
generalized shaking with blue lieps





Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Management of seizure exacerbation.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.









- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;


- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient's exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case.  Impedances were measured and verified to be
below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to
computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest
and reviewed in detail.






Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.  The  spike and seizure detection
computer program was used to screen the EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal
discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.  Detections were reviewed in detail by
attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as selected samples, were stored to external
hard drive media.






MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:

divalproex (DEPAKOTE ER) 24 hr tablet 500 mg


diazePAM (VALIUM) tablet 10 mg was taking 10 TID

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 250 mg

pantoprazole (PROTONIX) EC tablet 40 mg


He requested opiates which were not provided.

DAY 1 (10/26/2016-10/27/2016, 10:00)

BP 127/81 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Lying)  Pulse 99  Temp 98.1 °F (36.7 °C) (Oral)
Resp 18  Ht 6' (1.829 m)  Wt 197 lb (89.4 kg)  SpO2 98%  BMI 26.72 kg/m2



BACKGROUND:


The waking background is  continuous,  symmetric,  well-organized, and consists predominantly of
beta with admixed alpha.




Posterior dominant rhythm was 10 Hz

The background is  reactive,  variable.


There were  no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.

Seep was characterized by  Just a handful of drowsy bursts



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): none

EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: none

ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: no change

Photic Stimulation: + driving. Patient stated that photic produced a HA, similar to those before his
events.



EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events were reported or detected.



DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Normal mostly wake pattern, remarkable for tachycardia


-----------------------------------------------------------------


DAY 2 (10/27, 06:00 - 10/28/2016, 10:00)


medications

diazepam (VALIUM) 2 mg tablet, 10 mg BID

divalproex (DEPAKOTE DR) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth nightly. Dose to be adjusted as
needed


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. Goal is to reduce

BACKGROUND: Remained normal, little sleep, but some drowsiness


GENERALIZED SLOWING: None

FOCAL SLOWING: None

PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None


SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None

EVENTS: No epileptiform clinical or electrographic events reported or detected

EKG: A single EKG lead captured  HR 120 BPM to 126 BPM


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:

Hyperventilation: no change




Photic Stimulation: + driving.

On the morning of the 28th the patient withdrew his consent for EEG monitoring. He demanded
removal the EEG electrodes and eloped from the hospital with his IV in place.


DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION


Normal record. The generous beta may be due to the patient's use of large doses of Valium.


INDUCTION PROCEDURES:

Sleep deprivation- patient does not sleep well


Photic stimulation elicits normal driving

Hyperventilation No change



SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:

Interictal Findings:  Normal study. Beta c/w medicines.




Ictal Findings:

The patient had ZERO  clinical events while hooked up to continuous video EEG monitoring in the
epilepsy monitoring unit.



SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:


1. Likely Non epileptiform events based on the history provided by the patient in that he only has
events which are triggered by severe headache



EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:

1. Probable psychogenic non epileptiform events



CONCLUSION:

was admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 2 days of continuous video EEG.  Under the
guidance of psychiatry, his diazepam was reduced but he terminated the admission before we could
continue the wean. He was NOT provided with opiates nor ritalin, given the clear history delineated
by our consultant for drug abuse and concerns for secondary gain. He was offered outpatient therapy,
but left before this could be arranged. Ideally, Keppra should be weaned.





The patient was counseled during the first two days of his hospitalization that the current events
appear to be emotional in nature.


We recommend that he/she to see a psychiatrist or therapist for assessment of underlying
psychopathology and diagnosis.




No follow up was scheduled.
