DATE OF STUDY: 06/30/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep




HISTORY:

a 43 y.o. female with a history of childhood epilepsy, migraine, now with recurrent
seizures referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


unknown

TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz 40 uV posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Overall organization is at the limits of normal.








During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is brief, with brief spindles and K complexes followed by arousal


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


Hypnogogic hypersynchrony is present.


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: high amplitude bursts with a few asynchronous bursts were seen



Photic Stimulation: did not elicit any pathological wave forms.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This routine EEG is within the limits of normal.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This  routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.  The Hyperventilation
response is at the limits of normal.  Consider medication review and 1 hour EEG to provide a more
complete assessment.








Attending Epileptologist: 



I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.




















































































