HISTORY:

44 y.o. male with a history of endocarditis, sepsis, pulmonary thrombosis referred
for routine EEG for EEG monitoring during therapeutic hypothermia.  The patient was initially very
anxious





MEDICATIONS:



Facility-administered medications for this visit.

Versed, Flurane, Etomidate, Rocuronium succinyl chloride, isoflurane, heparin



TECHNIQUE:


Digital 21 channel electroencephalogram monitoring (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-
20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG.  The Standard operative montage was used.






The recording begins with the patient awake in the OR and continues through sedation, hypothermia
and then be warming after completion of the procedure.  The study was monitored with one on one,
remote physician review, with intermittent breaks by the reviewing EEG physicians.


EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9  Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  The awake pattern is low voltage with generous beta.
 there is excess th  eta, and then there is a normal awake pattern.




Induction: 10:22   AM Produces bursts of rhythmic slowing, then a burst suppression pattern, with
waxing and waning pattern, often a theta pattern.


COOLING: 10:36 AM - the patient is cooled slowly, and at 12:34 the temp is 36 degrees.  At 12:44
the temperature was 34°   The EEG becomes flat at 2:07 for a 5 minute time observation time until
2: 12.   Circulatory arrest is at  2:19.  The patient is cooled  to 16.9°.The patient was placed on
circulatory arrest 2  times




Bypass: the patient was placed on bypass at 12:15.


REWARMING: -3:54 PM The EEG is remarkable for artifact between 4-5 PM but  gradually starts to
return with B-S  Pattern at 5 PM and then lower voltage rhythmic mixed theta delta.  It is nearly
continuous at  6 PM, with minor shifting asymmeteries.  Throughout the remainder of the EEG, there
is a mixed frequency, symmetric continuous pattern.  The EEG ended at 6:53 PM.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:  73 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION:


EEG monitoring during the intraoperative use of therapeutic hypothermia demonstrated attenuation
and then suppression of cerebral activity followed by return of a rich, bihemispheric pattern.


These results were reported to the operative team during the procedure.
