HISTORY:

45 y.o. male with a history of childhood seizures, now with a breakthrough
seizure 2 weeks ago with tongue biting, referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically difficult record
(tech noted she could not obtain acceptable impedences in T1, T2 despite trying three times) and
included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a low voltage beta activity (14-16
microvolts).




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a most likely normal awake and asleep routine EEG. A low voltage background is noted.
There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a most likely normal awake and asleep routine EEG.




A low voltage background can be seen in 5-10% of adults, often with amplitudes in the range
described above.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
