HISTORY:

49 y.o. male with a history of seizures (onset 1 year ago, last episode 1 month ago -
no recall of event, +tongue biting) and memory loss, referred for routine EEG for characterization of
seizures.




MEDICATIONS: Keppra, Seroquel



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but
suboptimal.



During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing are seen.




Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.


Abundant left temporal polymorphic slowing, often sharply contoured.

Occasional right temporal polymorphic slowing, often synchronous but rarely independent of left
temporal slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) left anterior temporal sharp waves (F7/T1/T3 max)


2. Occasional (>1/hour to <1/min) left temporal rhythmic delta activity (also known as TIRDA)


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no effect.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Suboptimal organization

2. Abundant left temporal polymorphic slowing, often sharply contoured






3. Occasional right temporal polymorphic slowing, often synchronous but rarely independent of left
temporal slowing


4. Frequent left anterior temporal sharp waves

5. Occasional left temporal rhythmic delta activity




CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are indicative of epileptogenic potential of left (anterior) temporal origin. There is
additional evidence of etiologically nonspecific left > right temporal dysfunction superimposed on a
mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
