HISTORY:

39 y.o. female with a history of R parietal meningioma and daily seizures,
headaches referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

verapamil (CALAN-SR) 180 mg CR tablet, Take 2 tablets daily.


oxyCODONE-acetaminophen (PERCOCET) 5-325 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 4
hours as needed for Pain.


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

hydrOXYzine (VISTARIL) 50 mg capsule, Take 50 mg by mouth 3 times daily as needed for Itching.


Temazepam (RESTORIL) 30 mg capsule, Take 30 mg by mouth nightly as needed for Sleep.

citalopram (CELEXA) 40 mg tablet, Take 40 mg by mouth daily.

clonazePAM (KLONOPIN) 2 mg tablet, Take 2 mg by mouth daily.





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and an excess
amount of beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves.
Features of stage II sleep (sleep spindles and K-complexes), as well as slow wave sleep, were not
captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.


If clinically warranted, a recording with sleep may be helpful.

Excess beta activity may be seen in the setting of a medication effect such as benzodiazepines.
