HISTORY:

a 60 y.o. female with a history of seizures

referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


Pt had 3 sz total, all out of sleep: 2 in July 2015 and 1 on

1/15/2016. She did not seek medical help after the first 2

events. For 1/2016 event she was taken to Aria Health. No records


from that ED visit are available, except that pt received NS 1 L

and was started on Keppra 500 mg BID.

MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

nitroGLYCERIN (NITROSTAT) 0.4 mg SL tablet, Place 0.4 mg under

the tongue every 5 minutes as needed for Chest pain.


OMEPRAZOLE PO, Take  by mouth.

aspirin 81 mg chewable tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2


times daily.




METOPROLOL TARTRATE PO, Take  by mouth. Indications: unknown dose

- check with patient


LORazepam (ATIVAN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet ~30-60 minutes

prior to the scan. May take another tablet right before the scan.


SUMATRIPTAN SUCCINATE (IMITREX PO), Take  by mouth. Indications:

unknown dose - check with patient

RANITIDINE HCL PO, Take  by mouth. Indications: unknown dose -

check with patient



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  1 hour 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded


using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and

utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory

record and included a single channel of EKG, HV but nophotic

stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background slightly disorganized but overall, is

symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a

moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal

anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by


a symmetric and reactive 10.7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm

(PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.


Intermittent bursts of shifting arrhythmic delta activity are

noted in wakefulness and early drowsiness, slightly more sharply

contoured on the left.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.  Intermittent, independent left or

right temporal slowing as well as some bitemporal slowing was


noted.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes.  Stage II sleep is disrupted with intermittent

referral arousals without definitive snoring.  In addition,

central spindles are fast and slightly higher amplitude in the


overall background Slow wave sleep was not captured.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.  The left temporal focal

slowing and sharply contoured but there were no definitive


epileptiform discharges



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Ellicits bitemporal slowing which is


slightly more sustained on the left


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not

performed.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is one hour outpatient EEG is remarkable for:


#1 shifting temporal slowing left greater than right



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an  abnormal routine EEG.  The temporal features


described above her outside the range of normal for an adult of

this age.  In addition, the focal features or a little more

prominent on the left.  No sharp waves or other epileptiform

features were identified, consequently, this EEG does not support


or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
