HISTORY: 55 y.o. male with a history of a right temporoparietal GBM s/p craniotomy and resection in 2015, and two seizures, now admitted after another likely seizure on 1/25 and referred for EEG for assessment of mental status change.  MEDICATIONS: Keppra  SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (1/28/2016, 10:30 - 1/29/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND: The waking background is continuous and reactive but asymmetric. The left hemisphere consists of alpha, theta, delta, and beta frequencies, with a present but suboptimal anterior-posterior gradient. There is a posterior dominant rhythm of 8 Hz. The right hemisphere consists of alpha and delta frequencies, with a present but suboptimal anterior-posterior gradient. Fragments of a posterior dominant rhythm of 8 Hz are seen less clearly than on the left.  There is mild diffuse slowing. There is continuous right hemispheric slowing and attenuation of fast frequencies.  Sleep is characterized by further slowing of the background.  Note is made that the patient drifts in and out of sleep frequently during day time hours. At night, he remained awake.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  1. Frequent diffuse sharp waves with triphasic morphology, with shifting predominance between the hemispheres, activated by sleep. These are occasionally periodic at 1 Hz for runs of < 10 seconds.  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured   DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal long-term video EEG due to: 1. Mild diffuse slowing and suboptimal organization 2. Continuous right hemispheric slowing and attenuation of fast frequencies. 3. Frequent diffuse sharp waves with triphasic morphology, with shifting predominance between the hemispheres, activated by sleep. These are occasionally periodic at 1 Hz for runs of < 10 seconds.  These findings are consistent with right hemispheric dysfunction superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Sharp waves with triphasic morphology are commonly seen in toxic metabolic states, but can also represent epileptogenic discharges. There are no clinical or electrographic seizures reported or detected.  Note is made that the patient drifts in and out of sleep frequently during day time hours. At night, he remained awake.  These findings are consistent with a disrupted sleep-wake cycle.     -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 2 (1/29/2016, 06:00 - 1/29/2016, 08:39)  BACKGROUND: No change.   GENERALIZED SLOWING: No change  FOCAL SLOWING: No change  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: no change  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single EKG lead captured a heart rate in the 80s-140s   DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  No change from day 1, except tachycardia.      -----------------------------------------------------------------  FINAL IMPRESSION:  This is abnormal long term video EEG due to:  1. Mild diffuse slowing and suboptimal organization 2. Continuous right hemispheric slowing and attenuation of fast frequencies. 3. Frequent diffuse sharp waves with triphasic morphology, with shifting predominance between the hemispheres, activated by sleep. These are occasionally periodic at 1 Hz for runs of < 10 seconds.   CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings are consistent with right hemispheric dysfunction superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Sharp waves with triphasic morphology are commonly seen in toxic metabolic states but can also represent epileptogenic discharges.   There are no clinical or electrographic seizures reported or detected.  Note is made that the patient drifts in and out of sleep frequently during day time hours.  At night, he remained awake.  These findings are consistent with a disrupted sleep-wake cycle.  
