HISTORY:

72 y.o. female with a history of seizures, now presents in status epilepticus.



MEDICATIONS:

Dilantin


Tegretol


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:






The waking background is characterized by the presence of a 9-10 Hz polymorphic low amplitude
alpha activity posteriorly, poor AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient and diffuse polymorphic theta and
beta activity.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Waveforms resembling sleep spindles are noted.



Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity is captured over the bitemporal regions.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Abundant (>1/10s) synchronous and asynchronous high amplitude bilateral anterior temporal sharps
with aftergoing slow waves are observed.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over T1 and T2 leads.

Right temporal epileptiform discharges are frequently followed by ~ 1-2 seconds of nonevolving 3 Hz
sharply contoured delta activity.  To a much lesser degree, left temporal epileptiform discharges are
followed by ~1-2 seconds of nonevolving 5 Hz sharply contoured theta activity.





OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of ~120 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild diffuse slowing

2. Continuous moderate bitemporal focal slowing



3. Abundant synchronous and asynchronous high amplitude bilateral anterior temporal epileptiform
discharges.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.

There are structural cerebral potentially epileptogenic abnormalities over the bitemporal regions.
