HISTORY:

This is a 37 y.o. FEMALE WITH H/O OF CEREBRAL PALSY AND AUTISM. SHE ALSO HAS A
DIAGNOSE OF EPILEPSY AND HAS SZ. EVERDAY PER HER MOTHER WITH HEAD MOVEMENT
AND CRYING OUT. HX HAS NOT CHANGE D PER MOTHER, PRESENTS FOR FOLLOW UP.




Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Characterization of seizures particularly crying spells.


Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:


- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.





- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;


- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patients exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case.  Impedances were measured and verified to be
below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to
computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest
and reviewed in detail.






Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.





The  spike and seizure detection computer program was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.
Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as
selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 4 capsules by mouth nightly. Pt has 2 MR #s and
two names


levETIRAacetam (KEPPRA) 100 mg/mL solution, Take 7.5 mLs by mouth 2 times daily.

ziprasidone (GEODON) 60 mg capsule, Take 60 mg by mouth 2 times daily (with meals).

olanzapine (ZYPREXA) 20 mg tablet,


DOC-Q-LACE 100 mg capsule,

olanzapine zydis (ZYPREXA) 5 mg disintegrating tablet,

zolpidem (AMBIEN) 10 mg tablet,


aspirin 81 mg chewable tablet, Take 81 mg by mouth daily.

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D-3) 400 unit Capsule, Take  by mouth.



multivitamin (THERAGRAN) per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

OLANZapine (ZYPREXA) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth nightly.


olanzapine zydis (ZYPREXA) 20 mg disintegrating tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth nightly.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


perampanel (FYCOMPA) 2 mg Tablet, Take 2 mg by mouth daily was prescribed but was not given
to patient as per family.



SEDATION: None



DAY 1 (2/2/2017, 11:05- 2/3/2017, 06:00)



BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a poorly organized mixture of alpha and
beta frequencies, 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) at best. The normal anterior-to-posterior
gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




Excessive 5-7 Hz discharges are seen in wakefulness.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Short bursts (less than 3 seconds) of symmetric frontal predominant generalized spike at 3.0hz are
seen.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.






HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


1. Frontal predominant generalzed spike and wave at 3Hz

2. Mild diffuse slow waves and disorganization


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy limited quality routine EEG due to generalized spike and
wave which may be seen in generalized epilepsy. In addition there is mid to moderate diffuse
background slowing and disorganization.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of
moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.




INDUCTION PROCEDURES:

None



SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:

Interictal Findings:


Frontal predominant bursts of 3Hz spike and wave

Disorganized mildly slow background.



Ictal Findings:

The patient had no clinical events while hooked up to continuous video EEG monitoring in the
epilepsy monitoring unit.



SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:

1. Generalized



EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:

1. Symptomatic generalized epilepsy



CONCLUSION:

The patient was admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 1 day with continuous
video EEG.  This was an uneventful EMU monitoring session because of no of the crying spells were
captured. The family did not think these events were epileptic.










The interictal EEG is characterized by bursts 3hz frontal predominant spike and wave which may be
seen in generalized epilepsy.  Mild diffuse background slowing and disorganization is a non specific
indicator of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
