HISTORY:

18 y.o. female with a history of childhood epilepsy characterized by a dizzy
blurry feeling, + family history. Recurrent seizures in 2016,  referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

Current Facility-Administered Medications:


medroxyprogesterone (DEPO-PROVERA) injection 150 mg


SEDATION: normal



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:



The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz  30 uVposterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  There is a small amount of background theta and
disorganization in the EEG.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not sustained.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation:  Produces an increase in amplitude of the EEG



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a mildly abnormal routine EEG for a person of this age.  There are no clinical or
electrographic events reported or detected.


1. Very mild background excess theta and disorganization

CLINICAL CORRELATION:






This routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.  There were no epileptiform
features
