HISTORY:

This is a 51 y.o. female admitted for continuous video-electroencephalography (VEEG) monitoring
with a history of: absence seizures, myoclonic jerks, and convulsions. She now reports increased
events of waking up feeling tired with a sore tongue.





Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Characterization of seizures.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;




- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient's exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Impedances were measured and verified to be below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded
referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to computer hard drive.  Periods of interest
were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest and reviewed in detail.






Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.






The Gotman spike and seizure detection computer program (trademark named "Stellate") was used
to screen the EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG
were recorded periodically.  Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events
and detections, as well as selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.




MEDICATIONS: Oxcarbazepine 750 mg in AM (300 mg tab, 2.5 tab AM) + 900 mg in PM (300 mg
tab, 3 tab PM)



SEDATION: None



DAY 1 (6/20/2016, 11:31 - 6/21/2016, 06:00)


AEDs: Oxcarbazepine 750 mg in AM, 600 mg in PM



BACKGROUND:



The waking background is continuous, symmetric, well-organized, and consists predominantly of
alpha with admixed beta, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.






Posterior dominant rhythm is present at 10 Hz and attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.



Drowsiness is characterized by attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, with
bursts of theta and delta slowing.



Sleep is characterized by synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles, and K complexes.



There is no generalized slowing.

There is rare polymorphic left temporal slowing.

Note that full assessment of focal slowing is limited by bitemporal chain muscle artifact on this day.



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Frequent bursts of 3.5 Hz diffuse bifrontal-predominant spike-and-wave discharges lasting up to 2
seconds.


Some appear to have a slightly asymmetric appearance at onset, but there is no clear prevalence of
one hemisphere lead-in over the other. There was no correlate to the discharges seen on video.



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events were reported or detected.


DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to:

1. Rare polymorphic left temporal slowing

2. Occasional bursts of 3.5 Hz diffuse bifrontal-predominant spike-and-wave discharges lasting up to 2
seconds



-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 2 (6/21/2016, 06:00 - 6/22/2016, 06:00)


AEDs: Oxcarbazepine 600 mg in AM, 900 mg in PM; Zonegran 100 mg in PM





INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: no change in posterior dominant rhythm.

There is rare polymorphic left temporal slowing and rare independent polymorphic right temporal
slowing.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Frequent bursts of 3.5 Hz diffuse bifrontal-predominant spike-and-wave discharges, rarely lasting as
long as 5 seconds.


Some appear to have a slightly asymmetric appearance at onset, but there is no clear prevalence of
one hemisphere lead-in over the other. There was no correlate to the discharges seen on video, but
note that patient was not tested during the rare 5-second burst.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



SEIZURES/EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s.



-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 3 (6/22/2016, 06:00 - 6/22/2016, 13:55)



AEDs: no change from day 2


INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: no change in posterior dominant rhythm.


There is rare polymorphic left temporal slowing and rare independent polymorphic right temporal
slowing.

Note that full assessment of focal slowing is limited by bitemporal chain muscle artifact on this day.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Frequent bursts of 3.5 Hz diffuse bifrontal-predominant spike-and-wave discharges, lasting as long
as 3 seconds.






Some appear to have a slightly asymmetric appearance at onset, but there is no clear prevalence of
one hemisphere lead-in over the other. There was no correlate to the discharges seen on video, but
note that patient was not tested during the rare 5-second burst.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


SEIZURES/EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 60s.





-----------------------------------------------------------------


SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:



INTERICTAL FINDINGS:  The patient's interictal findings were significant for a 10 Hz posterior
dominant rhythm, with rare bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing.


There were frequent bursts of 3.5 Hz diffuse bifrontal-predominant spike-and-wave discharges, lasting
as long as 5 seconds (day 2), usually lasting up to 2.5-3 seconds.


Some appeared to have a slightly asymmetric appearance at onset, but there is no clear prevalence
of one hemisphere lead-in over the other. There was no correlate to the discharges seen on video,
but note that patient was not tested during the rare 5-second burst.



ICTAL FINDINGS:


The patient did not have any clinical events.


SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:


1. Generalized, convulsive, myoclonic, absence


EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:



1. Idiopathic/genetic generalized epilepsy



CONCLUSION:

was admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 3 days with continuous video EEG.
This was an elective EMU monitoring session for characterization and medication management.



The interictal EEG is characterized by a 10 Hz normal posterior dominant rhythm, with rare
bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing.



There were frequent bursts of 3.5 Hz diffuse bifrontal-predominant spike-and-wave discharges.



There were no seizures captured.



On the first day, the patient's Trileptal was lowered slightly.  The patient had no events on this
lowered dose.  Clinically her symptoms were highly suspicious for convulsive seizures, so a broad
spectrum antiepileptic, Zonegran, was added to her home regimen of Trileptal.  She was counseled
extensively in the side effects of Zonegran.




Patient is follow-up at the Temple Epilepsy Center as an outpatient.
