HISTORY: 69 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy ("strange sound, followed by tonic-clonic convulsion"), admitted with renal failure, referred for EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.  MEDICATIONS: Valproic acid  SEDATION: None listed  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1 (6/17/2016, 11:30 - 6/18/2016, 11:36)  BACKGROUND: The waking background is continuous, symmetric, fairly organized, and reactive.  Wakefulness consists of low amplitude theta and delta with fragments of a posterior dominant rhythm that approach 6.5 Hz.   Frequently, there are bursts of theta activity (lasting 1-5 seconds) seen most prominently over the left temporal region, and to a lesser extent the left parasagittal region, and less so over the right hemisphere. There is a >50% difference in amplitude between the hemispheres during these bursts, with higher amplitude over the left hemisphere.  There is no evolution.  Sleep is characterized by further slowing of the background. Sleep transients are not seen.  There is moderate generalized slowing.  As the study progresses the leads become increasingly degraded by artifact, rendering full interpretation of the background suboptimal.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  See "background" above  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left fronto-temporal (F7>T1/T3 max) sharp waves  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected  EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 60s-70s  IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal long term video EEG due to: 1. Moderate generalized slowing and suboptimal organization 2. Frequent bursts of theta activity seen most prominently over the left temporal region 3. Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left fronto-temporal (F7>T1/T3 max) sharp waves  CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are indicators of left fronto-temporal epileptogenic potential superimposed on a moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction. The significance of the bursts of theta activity maximal over the left temporal region is unclear. They may represent right hemispheric dysfunction as they are seen with lower amplitude on that side. Alternatively, they may represent an abnormal rhythm over the left temporal region. They do not meet electrographic criteria for seizure activity.  There were no clinical or electrographic seizures reported or detected during this study.  
