HISTORY:

57 y.o. female with a history of suspected syncope and abnormal EEG referred for
1-hour EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

ERGOCALCIFEROL, VITAMIN D2, (VITAMIN D2 PO), Take  by mouth.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 250 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


metoprolol (TOPROL-XL) 25 mg 24 hr tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth once daily

olmesartan (BENICAR) 5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



Most of the study consists of drowsiness.  During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation
and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.


Rare left temporal polymorphic slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) bilateral synchronous and independent (left > right) anterior to mid
temporal sharply contoured theta. This has an appearance most consistent with wicket waves, a
benign variant.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild rare left temporal polymorphic slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 1-hour EEG due to:




1. Rare left temporal polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of left temporal cerebral dysfunction.

Sharply contoured theta waves noted over the bitemporal regions synchronously and independently
(left > right) are most consistent with a benign variant (wicket waves).
