HISTORY:

20 y.o. male with a history of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, 1 qhs x 7 days, then 1 BID x 7

days, then 2 BID



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was




recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically


satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11.5


Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

EKG artifact



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed since

patient reports shortness of breath



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which


is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and drowsy  routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of


epilepsy.

No epileptiform discharges are present, but stage 2 sleep was not


recorded.  If clinically indicated, repeat EEG with sleep

recording may provide additional information.
