HISTORY:

32 y.o. male with a history of migraines and

episodes of loss of consciousness referred for routine EEG for


evaluation of paroxysmal events.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

naproxen (NAPROSYN) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times

daily (with meals).


topiramate (TOPAMAX) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times

daily. For a total dose of 75 mg twice per day

topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times


daily. For a total dose of 75 mg twice per day

metoclopramide (REGLAN) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth as

needed (nausea/ voming/ headache).






SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically challenging study at times,

with frequent muscle artifact over the temporal chains. The study

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with

abundant bursts of sharply contoured diffuse theta and delta.

There is a symmetric and reactive 9.5-10 Hertz posterior dominant


rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of

frequency and amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep transients are not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.

There is frequent shifting delta slowing across the hemispheres,

temporal maximum, more often seen over the left.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy, though somewhat limited,


one-hour EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing


2. Frequent shifting delta slowing across the hemispheres,

temporal maximum, more often seen over the left


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of bihemispheric (temporal

predominant, L>R) dysfunction, superimposed on mild diffuse


cerebral dysfunction.
