DATE OF STUDY: 01/17/17

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep



HISTORY:

a 53 y.o. male with a history of refractory epilepsy referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures. Last seizure 1 month ago (pt reports 2-3 seizures/month)



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3 times daily.

Lacosamide (VIMPAT) 100 mg Tablet, Take 100 mg/day by mouth 2 times daily.


lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide (PRINZIDE,ZESTORETIC) 20-12.5 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by
mouth daily.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles
and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Frequent left fronto-temporal and independent right fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing
(occasionally quasi-rhythmic) is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

1. A single left fronto-temporal sharp transient is noted in drowsiness, not clearly epileptiform



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and
exacerbates focal slowing in the bitemporal regions



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps), performed in
sleep, does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:




1. Frequent left temporal and independent right temporal polymorphic slowing (occasionally quasi-
rhythmic)



CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of a left > right fronto-temporal dysfunction.























































