HISTORY: This is a 60 y.o. male undergoing continuous inpatient video-electroencephalography (VEEG) monitoring with a history of: refractory epilepsy.     Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Management of seizure exacerbation.  Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons: - The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual mortality rate. - Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures causing injury or status epilepticus; - The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;   - The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they arise, including nurses to document patient’s exam There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not a "low risk" service  CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING: A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.  Impedances were measured and verified to be below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest and reviewed in detail.   Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24 hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.    The Gotman spike and seizure detection computer program (trademark named "Stellate") was used to screen the EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.  Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.    MEDICATIONS: S/p VPA load S/p fosphenytoin load, now on phenytoin 100 q8h Oxcarbazepine 600 mg q12h  SEDATION: None  DAY 1 (7/28/2016, 15:33 - 7/29/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND:  The waking background is markedly abnormal and consists of 2 patterns: 1. A 6-7 Hz theta pattern, with theta-range posterior dominant rhythm, equivocally in terms of whether or not it reacts to eye opening. Anterior-posterior gradient is present but suboptimal.  2. Abundant bursts of high amplitude, irregular, slow wave activity, often with spike and wave activity but there is not always an embedded spike.  It is primarily a notched frontal delta pattern of 2.5-3 Hz.  On this day pattern #2 is much more prevalent.  The background is reactive, variable.  There were no major asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.  There is shifting arrhythmic delta noted from either hemisphere  Sleep was characterized by slowing.  The spike and wave discharges, or the high amplitude delta bursts may slow to 2 Hz. The sleep pattern usually resembles the slow spike and wave pattern, but there were scant vertex waves and spindles.   EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: 1. Slow diffuse spike and wave, frontally predominant 2. Notched frontal delta- 3 Hz    3. Occasional left temporal sharp waves (F7, T3 max) 4. Occasional right temporal sharp waves (T4-T6 max) 5. Occasional left frontal sharp waves (F3 max) 6. Rare left posterior quadrant sharp waves (T5, P3 max)   PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None.  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  EVENTS:  CLINICAL: Staff pushes button multiple times on this day for decreased responsiveness and confusion, with or without right hand twitching. EEG: There is no associated change in background rhythms during these times.  DAY 1 IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal video EEG due to:  1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization, with background alternating between 7-8 Hz theta/alpha and high amplitude frontal 3 Hz delta  2. Slow diffuse spike and wave, frontally predominant 3. Occasional left temporal sharp waves (T3 max) 4. Occasional right temporal sharp waves (T4-T6 max) 5. Occasional left frontal sharp waves (F3 max) 6. Occasional left posterior quadrant sharp waves (T5, P3 max) 7. Episodes of decreased responsiveness and confusion, with or without right hand twitching, for which there was no EEG correlate.  CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings indicate the presence of multifocal epileptogenic potentials superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Slow spike and wave with multifocal epileptogenic potential and mild diffuse slowing are diagnostic of a symptomatic generalized epilepsy. The above episodes had no EEG correlate. -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 2 (7/29/2016, 06:00 - 7/30/2016, 06:00)  AEDs:  oxcarbazepine 600 q12h Phenytoin ER 300 q12h  INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: As on prior day, the waking background is markedly abnormal and consists of 2 patterns: 1. A 6-7 Hz theta pattern, with theta-range posterior dominant rhythm, equivocally in terms of whether or not it reacts to eye opening. Anterior-posterior gradient is present but suboptimal.  2. Abundant bursts of high amplitude, irregular, slow wave activity, often with spike and wave activity but there is not always an embedded spike.  It is primarily a notched frontal delta pattern of 2.5-3 Hz.  On this day pattern #2 is a bit less prevalent.  The background is reactive, variable.  There were no major asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.  There is shifting arrhythmic delta noted from either hemisphere  Sleep was characterized by slowing.  The spike and wave discharges, or the high amplitude delta bursts may slow to 2 Hz. The sleep pattern usually resembles the slow spike and wave pattern, but there were scant vertex waves and spindles.    EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Unchanged   OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  SEIZURES/EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 3 (7/30/2016, 06:00 - 7/30/2016, 09:47)  AEDs:  oxcarbazepine 600 q12h Phenytoin ER 300 q12h  INTERICTAL BACKGROUND: No change from day 2  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Unchanged   OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  SEIZURES/EVENTS: There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.  EKG: A single lead captured a heart rate in the 70s -----------------------------------------------------------------  FINAL IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal video EEG due to:  1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization, with background alternating between 7-8 Hz theta/alpha and high amplitude frontal 3 Hz delta; by day 2, the 7-8 Hz pattern becomes more prevalent 2. Slow diffuse spike and wave, frontally predominant 3. Occasional left temporal sharp waves (T3 max) 4. Occasional right temporal sharp waves (T4-T6 max) 5. Occasional left frontal sharp waves (F3 max) 6. Occasional left posterior quadrant sharp waves (T5, P3 max) 7. Episodes of decreased responsiveness and confusion on 7/28, with or without right hand twitching, for which there was no EEG correlate.  FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings indicate the presence of multifocal epileptogenic potentials superimposed on a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Background appears slightly more organized with less of an epileptiform background starting day 2.  Slow spike and wave with multifocal epileptogenic potential and mild diffuse slowing are diagnostic of a symptomatic generalized epilepsy.   The episodes on 7/28 of decreased responsiveness and confusion had no EEG correlate. 
