HISTORY:

55 y.o. male a history of migraine, HTN,

prostate cancer, and stab wound to the femoral artery presents


with episodes of arm/leg shaking with preserved consciousness; he

is referred for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 3


times daily.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2

times daily.


hydrocortisone (ANUSOL-HC) 25 mg suppository, Place 1 suppository

rectally 3 times daily.

Ergocalciferol, Vitamin D2, (VITAMIN D) 50,000 unit Capsule, Take


50,000 Units by mouth every 7 days.




amLODIPine (NORVASC) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.

Calcium Carbonate-Vitamin D3 (CALCIUM 600 + D,3,) 600 mg(1,500mg)


-200 unit Tablet, Take  by mouth daily.

bicalutamide (CASODEX) 50 mg tablet, Take 50 mg by mouth daily.


aliskiren (TEKTURNA) 150 mg tablet, Take 150 mg by mouth daily.


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a

symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).

The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

Subtle occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces focal slowing in the

left temporal region



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

The following events are captured:



(1) DATE AND TIME:   12/28/2015 at 14:36

EVENT TYPE: Non-epileptic event


CLINICAL: While patient is resting in chair with eyes closed, he

has intermittent waxing and waning

internal-external/abduction-adduction movements of the right

arm/forearm. He is able to raise both arms up without drift when


asked by the tech; when he does so the left arm/forearm develops

similar movements. These wax and wane while he correctly names


and answers orientation questions; they subside when tech asks

him to stop and come out when she says, "let it happen."

EEG: No ictal epileptic EEG correlate is present; awake

background with posterior dominant rhythm is seen


DURATION: 2 min 27 sec

POSTICTAL CHANGES:  none


EKG: no change in a single EKG lead


(2) DATE AND TIME:   12/28/2015 at 14:42

EVENT TYPE: Non-epileptic event


CLINICAL: Right arm jerk

EEG: No EEG changes from background, aside from movement


artifact, were seen

DURATION: <400 msec


POSTICTAL CHANGES:  Not applicable

EKG: no change



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep one hour EEG due to:


1. Subtle occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing

2. An episode of right, then bilateral arm waxing and waning


tremors without EEG correlate

3. A single right arm jerk without EEG correlate


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of left temporal cerebral

dysfunction.


The episode of right, then bilateral arm waxing and waning

tremors had no EEG correlate; semiology is most consistent with a

nonepileptic behavioral event.

The single right arm jerk had no EEG correlate; however, a


surface negative myoclonic seizure cannot entirely be excluded.
