HISTORY:

45 y.o. female with a history of seizures for 20

years ("uncontrollable twitching in my right hand"), with the


last episode occurring yesterday, referred for routine EEG for

characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS: Tegretol


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well


organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with

abundant bursts of sharply contoured delta and theta slowing. At


time the slowing is bilateral posterior quadrant-predominant.

Other times (occasionally) the slowing is rhythmic at 3 Hz for 2

seconds (generalized rhythmic delta activity, sharply contoured:

GRDA+S).



There is a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant


rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of

frequency and amplitude is present.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and further

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Mild generalized slowing is present.


There is occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing, sharply

contoured.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


See above: occasional GRDA+S



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180


seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric

background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing, with abundant bursts of sharply


contoured theta and delta in wake/drowsiness, at times more

localized over the bilateral posterior quadrants


2. Occasional generalized rhythmic delta slowing (GRDA+S)

3. Occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of potential for diffuse

epileptogenicity, superimposed on bilateral posterior quadrant


and other times diffuse cerebral dysfunction as well as left

temporal dysfunction.
