HISTORY:

24 y.o. female with a history of recurrent

seizures, drops and medicine non compliance referred for routine


EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Ativan and Keppra

SEDATION: Ativan



TECHNIQUE:

A bedside portable digital video 21 channel electroencephalogram

(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with


T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a

technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of

EKG but no HV nor photic.  Electrode artifact was noted.


EEG BACKGROUND:




The patient is asleep or drowsy for most of the record.



The waking background is low voltage symmetric, reactive, and

consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal


beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior

gradient.  Wakefulness includes scant, symmetric and reactive  11

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates

symmetrically with eye opening.  There is generous beta.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.


Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with


synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 96  bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG.  The generous

beta may reflect medication effect.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.
