HISTORY:

29 y.o. female with a history of Down syndrome and intractable epilepsy referred
for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


BANZEL 400 mg tablet, Take 400 mg by mouth. 1600 bid

levothyroxine (SYNTHROID) 112 mcg tablet,

medroxyPROGESTERone (DEPO-PROVERA) 150 mg/mL injection, Inject 150 mg into the muscle
every 3 months.


medroxyPROGESTERone (DEPO-PROVERA) 150 mg/mL injection, use as directed at physician's
office

FYCOMPA 8 mg Tablet, Take 4 mg by mouth nightly.

lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) 200 mg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth twice a day (Patient taking
differently: 100am  50hs)


L-NORGEST-ETH ESTR/ETHIN ESTRA (LOSEASONIQUE PO), Take  by mouth. 1 tablet daily


SEDATION: None




TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a fairly organized mixture of alpha and
beta with an excess of sharply contoured delta and theta frequencies, especially prominent
posteriorly.  Fragments of a symmetric ~10 Hz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) are occasionally seen.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and further
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by rudimentary sleep spindles and K complexes, often with admixed
generalized epileptiform activity (dyshormia). Slow wave sleep is not captured.



Mild to moderate generalized slowing is present.


There is continuous sharply contoured bilateral posterior quadrant slowing, which is occasionally
quasi-rhythmic.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Abundant (>1/10s) 2-3 Hz irregular frontally-predominant generalized spike-and-wave discharges
occurring in runs <3 seconds, activated by sleep. These discharges are occasionally preceded by
~400 msec of diffuse spikey beta activity that may represent generalized paroxysmal fast activity.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:




A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1. Mild to moderate generalized slowing is present

2. Continuous sharply contoured bilateral posterior quadrant slowing, which is occasionally quasi-
rhythmic


3. Abundant 2-3 Hz generalized spike-and-wave discharges occurring in runs <3 seconds, activated by
sleep, occasionally preceded by ~400 msec of diffuse spikey beta activity that may represent
generalized paroxysmal fast activity



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


These findings indicate the presence of bilateral posterior quadrant cerebral dysfunction
superimposed on mild-to-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction. There is additional evidence for a
generalized mechanism of epileptogenicity.
