HISTORY:

46 y.o. FEMALE SZ SINCE THE AGE OF 12 DESCRIBED AS GTC SZ.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 300 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.

ferrous sulfate 325 mg (65 mg iron) tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days.

propranolol (INDERAL) 20 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 3 times daily for 360 days.


pantoprazole (PROTONIX) 40 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily for 360 days.

docusate sodium (COLACE) 100 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.

senna (SENOKOT) 8.6 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily as needed for Constipation.


norethindrone-ethinyl estradiol-iron (ESTROSTEP FE) 1-20(5)/1-30(7) /1mg-35mcg (9) Tab, Take  by
mouth daily.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is slightly disorganized mixture of frequencies beta and alpha, with a
symmetric 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of
frequency and amplitude is present.  Diffuse, frontally predominant 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also
seen.





Excessive 5-7 Hz diffuse activity is seen in wakefulness.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left frontal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

One clear F7 sharp wave is seen. Multiple suspicious discharges are also noted.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

Occasional wicket waves are noted during drowsiness over the frontal regions and Sharpy contoured
activity



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.




EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:



1. Single left frontal focal sharp wave


2. Left frontal intermittent focal slow

3. Mild diffuse slow wave

4. Excess beta



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep 1 hour EEG due to intermittent focal slowing in the left frontal
region and a sharp wave.  This finding is indicative of a potentially epileptogenic region with focal
dysfunction.In addition there is mild diffuse background slowing.  This finding is etiologically
nonspecific indicator of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Excessive beta activity could be secondary
to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.
