HISTORY:

26 y.o. male with a history of severe,

refractory epilepsy referred for EEG for management of seizure

exacerbation.  The patient spent the night at his girlfriend's


house.  In the morning, the mother arrived to give him the

seizure medication.  He did not respond to the doorbell or the

cell phone.  She climbed in the window, found him unresponsive.


Mother subsequently describes 6 seizures.  She states that he

probably missed his seizure medicines.  He presented to the

emergency room persistently unresponsive.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 1,000 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2




times daily.

phenobarbital (LUMINAL) 32.4 mg tablet, 4 tabs in the am 4 tabs


in hs

Lacosamide (VIMPAT) 200 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times


daily.

LORazepam (ATIVAN) 2 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 6

hours as needed (seizures).

Calcium Carbonate-Vit D3-Min (CALCIUM-VITAMIN D) 600 mg calcium-


400 unit Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet,



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.


SEDATION: none



TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKGand tactile  Stimulation.


Seizure and spike detection software was utilized.  Over the

course of this 48 hour monitor, the patient was increasingly


awake alert moving about and eating appropriately.  He received

one extra dose of phenobarbital only




DAY 1 (04/02/2016, 13:00 - 4/3/2016, 06:00)



BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous,  symmetric, with generous

beta.  It is a markedly abnormal adult EEG with diffuse beta,

bursa frontal delta and excess theta.  The wake pattern is


similar to the somnolent pattern, but there are more eye

movements but the patient is awake and moving about.  There is


intermittent paroxysmal theta noted in the background but without

a clear ictal evolution



Posterior dominant rhythm wasnot present.



The background is  reactive,  variable.



There were  no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.


Sleep was characterized by abundant beta.  Later in this section


of the record, sleep is characterized by an increase in slow

delta.



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

In the sharply contoured background, there is subtle underlying


occipital sharp waves


EVENTS: There were no electrographic seizures noted.  There were

no clinical seizures noted.  Stimulation of the patient produced


an arousal



EKG: A single lead captured 102 BPM


DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

Markedly abnormal due to:


#1 excess beta



#2 markedly slow background

#3 FIRDA

#4 underlying occipital sharp waves





-----------------------------------------------------------------



DAY 2 (04/03/2016, 06:00 - 4/4/2016, 09:00)



BACKGROUND:  This a markedly abnormal adult EEG with diffuse


beta, bursa frontal delta and excess theta.  The wake pattern is

similar to the somnolent pattern, but there are more eye

movements but the patient is awake and moving about.  The overall

background is a mixture of frontal delta, a generous diffuse beta


and background theta.  The patient is more awake with more theta

noted in wakefulness and eye movement. Sleep was characterized by


an increase in delta


GENERALIZED SLOWING: Marked



FOCAL SLOWING: None



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): FIRDA


SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None



EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected



EKG: A single EKG lead captured 72 BPM



DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION


Markedly abnormal background but sleep and wake cycles are noted.

No definitive epileptiform discharges.  No electric traffic


seizures



IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

The overall pattern is markedly abnormal.  The patient was more


somnolent with more beta noted initially.  Although no definitive

clinical seizures were noted, an alternative hypothesis for this


patient's obtundation was prominent beta can include

benzodiazepine or barbiturate ingestion.





