HISTORY: 64 y.o. male with a history of left carotid stenosis referred for EEG monitoring during left carotid endarterectomy.  MEDICATIONS / SEDATION: vecuronium, lidocaine, propofol, fentanyl  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded in the operating room (OR) using the International 10-20 system and utilized a NicOne system.  This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.  A technician was available in the OR throughout the study.  The use of sedative medications was documented by the technician, in communication with the anesthetist, throughout the study.  The neurophysiologist reviewed the study in real time in the OR, 1:1, for 100 minutes.     DESCRIPTION OF RECORD: The study begins just after the patient has been intubated. The background consists of a symmetric but disorganized mixture of alpha, beta, and theta frequencies.  Occasional diffuse attenuation of frequencies for up to 2 seconds is noted for several minutes just after induction. There is occasional left hemispheric focal slowing. The team is informed.   After clamping of the left/right carotid artery, there is no significant change in the background. The team is informed.                Heparin was given at: 15:38 Patient was clamped at: 15:52 Total clamp time: 45 min   A symmetric background was seen at termination of the recording session, with rare left hemispheric focal slowing noted.  The background briefly slows symmetrically to delta and theta frequencies with suppression of faster frequencies as the patient is given additional fentanyl. By the end of the recording at 17:38, faster frequencies re-emerge.  By extubation, background consists of alpha, theta, and delta frequencies with a fairly organized anterior to posterior gradient. The intermittent left hemispheric focal slowing is not noted.    IMPRESSION: Uneventful EEG with a symmetric background, with occasional left hemispheric focal slowing, at baseline with anesthesia. There is no change in the background upon carotid artery clamping.    Following extubation, background remains symmetric and begins to develop an anterior-posterior gradient, consistent with emergence from sedation.  The intermittent left hemispheric focal slowing is not noted after extubation.             CLINICAL CORRELATION:   Noneventful left carotid endarterectomy.   
