HISTORY:

26 y.o. female with a history of epilepsy with a recent seizure, referred for
routine EEG for screening for subclinical seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


Lamotrigine (LAMICTAL XR) 200 mg Tablet Extended Rel 24 hr (b), Take 200 mg by mouth daily.

lacosamide (VIMPAT) 200 mg Tablet, TAKE ONE TABLET TWICE A DAY

LORazepam (ATIVAN) 2 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet after any two seizures.


VIMPAT 200 mg Tablet, TAKE ONE TABLET TWICE A DAY

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth daily.



SEDATION: meds as above


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background consists of a disorganized mixture of sharply contoured theta, alpha, and
excess of beta frequencies without a clear posterior dominant rhythm.


During drowsiness, further background slowing is seen.

The patient quickly transitions in and out of sleep.

Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles
and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep is captured on this one-hour recording.



Moderate generalized slowing is present.


Sharply contoured theta activity is present more prominently over the central region during sleep
whereas it appears more attenuated on the right.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Frequent frontally predominant diffuse spike/sharp-and-wave, activated by sleep. This activity shifts
in predominance between left and right hemispheres. It is often associated with a K-complex
(dyshormia).




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
no definite change in background.




Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Moderate generalized slowing with disorganized background




2. Sharply contoured theta activity noted over the central region during sleep that often appears
more attenuated on the right


3. Frequent diffuse frontally predominant sharp/spike-and-wave, shifting in hemispheric
predominance, activated by sleep.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of diffuse epileptogenic potentials superimposed on moderate
diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Excess beta activity may be seen in the setting of benzodiazepines.




The sharply contoured theta activity over the left central region, more attenuated on the right, is of
unclear significance. It may represent vertex waves on the left that are seen less well on the right, or
alternatively may represent focal slowing on the left.



In prior EEGs, generalized as well as temporal epileptiform discharges were noted. No temporal
discharges were noted during this record. Generalized discharges were noted that shifted equally in
predominance across the hemispheres during sleep, which may represent spike fragments as part of a
generalized epileptogenicity.
