HISTORY:

65 y.o. woman with a history of stroke and multiple seizures that would manifest
as slurred speech and right sided weakness. Missed medicines, admitted overnight. Now back to
baseline.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL


docusate sodium (COLACE) capsule 100 mg

enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg

valproate (DEPACON) 1,000 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 100 mL IVPB


clopidogrel (PLAVIX) tablet 75 mg

rosuvastatin (CRESTOR) tablet 40 mg

dextrose 50% injection 25 mL


dextrose 50% injection 50 mL

glucagon (human recombinant) (GLUCAGEN) injection 1 mg

insulin lispro (HumaLOG) injection 1-5 Units




lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) tablet 5 mg

acetaminophen (TYLENOL) tablet 650 mg


lacosamide (VIMPAT) tablet 200 mg

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 1,500 mg



SEDATION: None

TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by an intrahemispheric asymmetry.  The left is a
disorganized asymmetric mixture of alpha, beta and theta frequencies. The left hemisphere shows
continuous focal slowing with irregular arrhythmic delta posterior sharp waves (maximal at T5/P3/O1).
There is a rare PDR noted on left. The right hemisphere is well organized and reactive with a 9.5
Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.

Nearly continual Focal slowing is present in the left hemisphere.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Irregular arrhythmic delta posterior sharp waves (maximal at T5/P3/O1)



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.



EVENTS:



There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Suboptimal organization


2. Bursts of focal slowing in the left hemisphere, often paroxysmal in nature, never exceeding 10
seconds, most less than 7 seconds.


3. Left posterior quadrant sharp waves


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings are suggestive of left posterior hemisphere cerebral dysfunction and structural lesion.
This EEG correlates with her previous EEG findings and history of stroke in the left hemisphere.  As
discussed with the IP team, this is a highly irritative pattern.
