CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 60-year-old male with childhood epilepsy

since the age of 3, no seizures in the past year.  Carries

diagnosis of intractable epilepsy with past history of status


epilepticus.


MEDICATIONS:  Tylenol, Tegretol, Klonopin, baclofen.



INTRODUCTION:  A 35-minute digital video EEG was performed in lab

using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel


EKG.  This is a technically satisfactory study.  Photic

stimulation was completed.  Hyperventilation was not possible.



DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In relaxed wakefulness, the

background EEG is markedly abnormal.  There is a glimpse of a

theta pattern of approximately 6-7 Hz.  There is a glimpse of a


7.5 Hz posterior dominant rhythm, which does react to eye

opening.  The relaxed, waking background is remarkable for

intermittent bursts of paroxysmal mixed rhythmic delta theta.


Some of this is high amplitude, sharply contoured, and also has




some irregular delta sometimes mixed in.



Drowsiness is characterized by an increase in higher amplitude

paroxysmal bursts and disappearance of the alpha rhythm.



Epileptiform activity in this sharply contoured record includes

independent, right or left, well-defined sharp waves of amplitude

exceeding 70 microvolts and at times exceeding 100 microvolts.


These are seen independently in the right or left temporal

region, are well-defined and are seen almost exclusively within


the bursts of paroxysmal slowing.


Photic stimulation, may have subtly accentuated sharp waves in

the left hemisphere in the left mid to posterior temporal region,


but was otherwise unremarkable.



Heart rate:  72 bpm.


IMPRESSION:  Abnormal 35-minute awake and drowsy EEG due to:

1. Background slowing and disorganization.


2. Intermittent bursts of paroxysmal background slowing.

3. Independent right or left temporal sharp waves.  Of note, some


of the sharp waves on the left have a posterior  temporal field

and photic stimulation.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a bihemispheric


disturbance of cerebral function.  The epileptiform activity is

seen independently from each region and may be correlated with


imaging.  This EEG supports a diffuse disturbance of cerebral

function and localization related mechanism for epilepsy.
