HISTORY:

73 y.o. female with a history of interstitial lung disease s/p double lung transplant
complicated by respiratory failure. Features of hospital course include alteration in mental status and
left hemiparesis. She has been referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.




MEDICATIONS:

Metoprolol, prednisone



SEDATION: none



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is continuous, symmetric, and characterized by the presence of poorly
organized mixture of theta with admixed alpha, beta, and occasional delta frequencies. The
posterior dominant rhythm is absent. The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is absent.




Drowsiness is characterized by further slowing of the background.



Sleep is captured and characterized by rudimentary vertex waves.



Moderate to severe generalized slowing is present throughout the record.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Occasional (1/hour to <1min) left fronto-temporal sharp waves are seen, max at F7



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: HV and photic stimulation were not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead with frequent PVCs


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Moderate to severe generalized slowing

2. Occasional left fronto-temporal sharp waves


3. Frequent PVCs are noted


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of etiologically nonspecific moderate to severe cerebral
dysfunction and left fronto-temporal epileptogenic potential.


Please note frequent PVCs were captured on a single EKG lead.
