HISTORY:

40 y.o. female with a history of medically

refractory seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Trileptal




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and


photic stimulation.





EEG BACKGROUND:


Very fragmented posterior dominant rhythm consists of polymorphic

6-7 Hz theta activity.  The AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient


is absent.  The background is sharply contoured in appearance.

It consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity

and continuous high amplitude triphasic waveforms.



No clear state changes are captured.




Sleep is not captured


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Occasional, generalized occipitally predominant spikes with

aftergoing slow waves are seen.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21

flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional


abnormalities.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


Diffuse slowing - moderate

Triphasic waveforms - continuous


Spikes - occasional - generalized with occipital predominance



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 22 minute EEG due to (1)

moderate diffuse slowing; (2) continuous triphasic waveforms and

(3) occasional generalized occipitally predominant epileptiform


discharges.

Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral


dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.

Triphasic waves are a nonspecific EEG finding that can be seen in

encephalopathy (mostly commonly hepatic), uremia, anoxia and many

other etiologies.


There is generalized cortical excitability.
