DATE OF STUDY: 04/29/16

RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient


EEG TYPE: 20-40 min (35 min), awake and asleep





HISTORY:

a 31 y.o. female with a history of a "benign brain tumor on the left side," a seizure
in 12/2014 during which she passed out at work, and episodes of numbness on the right side (none
for past month), referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

lacosamide (VIMPAT) 100 mg Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.


COL-RITE 100 mg capsule,

ferrous sulfate 325 mg (65 mg iron) tablet,

ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 600 mg tablet,


PRENATAL PLUS, CALCIUM CARB, 27 mg iron- 1 mg Tablet,

valACYclovir (VALTREX) 500 mg tablet,

Food Supplement, Lactose-Free (BOOST HIGH PROTEIN) Liquid, Drink 3 - 4 bottle per day


Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate 250 mg/mL Oil, Inject 250 mg into the muscle once a week.


SEDATION: None




TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 12 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric POSTS, sleep
spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

There is continuous left posterior quadrant (temporal max) polymorphic slowing. During drowsiness,
this slowing becomes rhythmic and sharply contoured but does not evolve.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

As noted above, during drowsiness, left posterior quadrant (temporal max) slowing becomes rhythmic
and sharply contoured.




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.





HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous left posterior quadrant (temporal max) polymorphic slowing, which becomes rhythmic
and sharply contoured during drowsiness



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of left posterior quadrant (temporal max) cerebral dysfunction.
Intermittent left temporal/posterior quadrant rhythmic slowing is consistent with epileptogenicity over
this region.




















































