HISTORY:

64 y.o. male with a history of seizures, referred for routine EEG after a fall
with possible seizure. Patient noted to have a glucose in 600s.



MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Isordil, Insulin



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:


Most of the study consists of drowsiness and sleep.








During brief nonsustained periods of wakefulness, the background appears reactive and at least fairly
organized, with a predominance of low voltage fast activity. A sustained posterior dominant rhythm is
not observed.




There is no definite focal slowing.


Sleep is characterized by synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.




EVENTS: a single seizure is captured as described below:

5/3/2016 at 11:02 (duration: 4 min 2 sec)

CLINICAL: there is no clinical change until 44 seconds into electrographic onset, when patient
appears to have small arousal from sleeping state.  Note that patient does not respond to verbal
stimulation prior to this.  There is no further clinical change until 112 seconds into electorgraphic
onset at which point he makes small chewing motions, then coughs repeatedly.



EEG: there is a buildup of rhythmic alpha, broadly distributed over the left temporal chain that slows
in frequency to theta, then delta while increasing in amplitude. This ictal activity spreads over the
left parasagittal chain before it develops spikes over the left temporal chain. By 44 seconds, the EEG
is obscured by diffuse muscle activity that resolves by 72 seconds. At this point there is 3 Hz quasi-
rhythmic spike-wave activity over the left hemisphere that slows to 2.5 Hz before resolving. There is
no definite focal attenuation/slowing postictally.




EKG: no change in HR



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal drowsy and asleep 23-minute routine EEG due to:

1. Suboptimal organization during brief nonsustained wakefulness


2. A single seizure of left temporal origin with few, if any, associated clinical signs


CLINICAL CORRELATION:




These findings demonstrate epileptogenicity of left temporal origin, with a single 4 min 12 sec
seizure captured during this 23-minute EEG. A prior long term EEG performed in 11/2015 also
demonstrated left temporal seizures.


There is additional evidence during this study for mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction during a brief
nonsustained period of wakefulness.


If clinically warranted, prolonged monitoring or a repeat study may be of value to assess for ongoing
epileptic activity. These findings were communicated to the treatment team.
