HISTORY:

57 y.o. male with a history of medically and

surgically refractory epilepsy s/p 2 corpus callosotomies (2001,


2003; reports hands shake, RLE shakes, has "electric feeling" -

multiple per day), exostosis, concussion, memory issues, and HTN

referred for routine EEG.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


acetazolamide (DIAMOX) 250 mg tablet, Take 250 mg by mouth 3

times daily.

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, 2 in AM, 3 in PM


PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) 60 mg tablet, 1 in AM, 2 at bed

Lacosamide 200 mg three times daily

sertraline (ZOLOFT) 100 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.






SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the


International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a


fairly organized symmetric mixture of alpha and excess beta

frequencies. There are fragments of a symmetric and reactive 10

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.


Sleep is not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

There is frequent right hemispheric polymorphic slowing, with


occasional spread to the left hemisphere.

There is occasional independent left hemispheric, frontally

predominant, polymorphic slowing.

There is a continuous breach rhythm, seen best over the vertex


(Fz/Pz/Cz electrodes), but also expressed frequently over the

right parasagittal region (F4/C4/P4 electrodes max) and


occasionally over the left frontal region (F3 max).


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional spike and wave, bifrontally predominant but higher


in

amplitude over the right (Fp2/F4/Fz/Cz >T4 > Fp1/F3)



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180

seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal Awake and drowsy routine EEG due to:

1. Suboptimal organization


2. Frequent right hemispheric polymorphic slowing, with

occasional spread to the left hemisphere


3. Occasional independent left hemispheric, frontally

predominant, polymorphic slowing

4. Continuous breach rhythm

5. Occasional spike and wave, bisynchronous and frontally


predominant

but higher in amplitude over the right (Fp2/F4/Fz/Cz >T4 >


Fp1/F3)


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of right hemisphere > left


hemisphere cerebral dysfunction superimposed on mild diffuse

cerebral dysfunction.  Bisynchronous frontally predominant


epileptiform discharges are seen, higher in amplitude on the

right. These most likely represent right frontal discharges based


on appearance and clinical history of corpus callosotomy.

The breach rhythm is consistent with this patient's known prior


history of cranial surgery.

Excess beta activity may be seen in the setting of phenobarbital


use.
