HISTORY:

27 y.o. female with a history of diabetes,

found with an episode of nausea vomiting and confusion.  Mother


found her on the front stairs, patient was amnestic for event.

Blood glucose was not thought to be sufficiently low to account

for symptoms;  referred for routine EEG for characterization of


seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Insulin




SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:


A  bedside portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram




(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with

T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a


technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of

EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.  Limited stage II


sleep was noted



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.





EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not

performed.  Therefore, if epilepsy is important consideration a


repeat study should be performed in the outpatient lab









































