HISTORY:

39 y.o. male with a history of 3 episodes of "passing out" in past 2 months, referred
for routine EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule,

montelukast (SINGULAIR) 10 mg tablet, Take 10 mg by mouth nightly.


fluticasone-salmeterol (ADVAIR) 250-50 mcg/dose diskus inhaler, Inhale 1 puff into the lungs every
12 hours.


albuterol (VENTOLIN HFA) 90 mcg/actuation inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs every 6 hours as
needed for Wheezing. Indications: ACUTE ASTHMA ATTACK

mometasone (NASONEX) 50 mcg/actuation nasal spray, Inhale 2 sprays into the nose daily.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:


A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically suboptimal
record, with lead artifact occasionally affecting C3, P4, O1, and Pz and included a single channel of
EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


No epileptiform activity is present.


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 98 seconds but was stopped prematurely as
patient complained of



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces
symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:



This is a normal, technically limited, awake and drowsy routine EEG.  There are no clinical or
electrographic events reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal, technically limited, awake and drowsy routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.

If clinically warranted, a repeat recording with sleep may be helpful.
