HISTORY: 61 y.o. male with a history of seizures, now presents with change in mental status, concerning for subclinical seizures.    MEDICATIONS: Current Facility-Administered Medications: sodium chloride 0.9 % 1,000 mL with folic acid 1 mg, MVI 10 mL, thiamine 100 mg infusion hydrOXYzine hcl (ATARAX) tablet 25 mg phenytoin (DILANTIN) 100 mg in sodium chloride 0.9 % 50 mL IVPB LORazepam (ATIVAN) tablet 1 mg LORazepam (ATIVAN) tablet 1 mg LORazepam (ATIVAN) tablet 2 mg PHENobarbital (LUMINAL) tablet 130 mg sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL famotidine (PEPCID) tablet 40 mg rivaroxaban (XARELTO) tablet 20 mg   SEDATION: None  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG   DAY 1 (10/17/2016 - 10/18/2016)  BACKGROUND: There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  During wakefulness the background over the right consists of 7 Hz polymorphic theta activity posteriorly with poor AP gradient and additional polymorphic theta and delta activity. The background over the left consists of 7 Hz polymorphic theta activity posteriorly with poor AP gradient and additional polymorphic theta <delta activity.  When compared to the right hemisphere, left hemisphere has fewer faster frequency waveforms.  As the recording progresses, degree of under-riding beta activity increases.  It is related to additional phenobarbital doses.    Sleep is characterized by poorly formed vertex waves and sleep spindles.  Sleep is fragmented with frequent arousals noted.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None  EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:  Frequent (>1/min to <1/10s) left posterior quadrant spikes with after-going slow waves are captured.  They have a broad field.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over O1>T5>P3 leads.   Occasional independent right temporal spikes with after-going waves are captured.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over T4/T6 leads.  As the recording progresses, frequency of epileptiform discharges decreases.  EVENTS: A single electrographic seizure is captured at ~7:20 pm.  It does not have a clear clinical correlate and patient is not tested formally during the event.  Patient's sister interacts with the patient but does not note any signs or symptoms.  Seizure lasts ~ 85 seconds.  Electrographically it starts with high amplitude rhythmic ~1 Hz T5/P3 spikes that rapidly evolve into 2 Hz and then 3 Hz rhythmic spikes that gradually decrease in amplitude and spread anteriorly over the left hemisphere.  There is no appreciable change in heart during the event  EKG: A single lead captures heart rate >100 bpm.   DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal ~13 hours long term video EEG due to: (1) mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing (2) continuous focal left hemispheric slowing (3) independent frequent left posterior quadrant epileptiform discharges and occasional right temporal epileptiform discharges (4) a single focal ~85 second subclinical seizure with left posterior quadrant onset  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild-to-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific. Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion over the left.  In this patient, it could also represent post-ictal phenomenon. There are 2 independent epileptogenic foci: left posterior quadrant and right temporal region.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team and adjustments to patient's AEDs were made (patient received extra phenobarbital dose and his standing dose was increased)     -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY #2 (10/18/2016, 06:00 - 10/29/2016, 06:00)  BACKGROUND: Interhemispheric asymmetry persists now with additional diffuse under-riding delta activity.  Periods of discontinuity appear during sleep.   FOCAL SLOWING: No change  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: similar to what was seen on day #1 of the recording but it overall becomes less frequent as the recording progresses  EVENTS: 2 additional seizures are captured at ~7:08 am and 11:44 am, ~60 seconds and 36 seconds, respectfully.  Again, no clear clinical correlate.  Electrographically, they are similar to the event captured on day #1 of the recording.  EKG: A single EKG lead captures heart rate >100 bpm.   DAY #2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  This is an abnormal ~24 hours long term video EEG due to: (1) mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing (2) continuous focal left hemispheric slowing (3) independent left posterior quadrant epileptiform discharges and right temporal epileptiform discharges - their frequency decreases as the recording progresses (4) 2 focal subclinical seizures with left posterior quadrant onset  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild-to-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Overall increase in the degree of diffuse slowing in this 24-hour recording is probably related to additional phenobarbital doses that patient has received. Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion over the left.  In this patient, it could also represent post-ictal phenomenon. There are 2 independent epileptogenic foci: left posterior quadrant and right temporal region.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.    -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY #3 (10/19/2016, 06:00 - 10/20/2016, 07:00)  BACKGROUND: No change  GENERALIZED SLOWING: No change  FOCAL SLOWING: No change  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: similar to what was seen on day #1 and #2 of the recording but it continues to become less frequent as the recording progresses  EVENTS: None  EKG: A single EKG lead captures heart rate >100 bpm.   DAY #3 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  Stable diffuse and focal slowing, less frequent epileptiform discharges and no electrographic seizures.      -----------------------------------------------------------------  FINAL IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal 3-day video EEG due to:  (1) mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing (2) continuous focal left hemispheric slowing (3) independent left posterior quadrant epileptiform discharges and right temporal epileptiform discharges - their frequency decreases as the recording progresses (4) 3 focal subclinical seizures with left posterior quadrant onset   FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild-to-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific. Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion over the left.   There are 2 independent epileptogenic foci: left posterior quadrant and right temporal region.  There is decrease in frequency of epileptiform discharges as the recording progresses - suspect that it is related to seizure resolution and adjustment of AEDs.  
