HISTORY:

85 y.o. female with a history of tremor type dementia, seizure free since 2009,
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures and progressive cognitive impairment.


Daughter also recognizes brief lapses of attention with trembling and staring. Briefly confused for a
minute afterwards- occured monthly in 2015.  She has an auditory hallucination, but can't tell us
what it is.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily (with breakfast).

amLODIPine (NORVASC) 10 mg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth once daily


lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) 10 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

temazepam (RESTORIL) 15 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth nightly.

BAYER CHILDRENS ASPIRIN PO, Take  by mouth.


acetaminophen (TYLENOL EXTRA STRENGTH) 500 mg tablet, Take two tablets in the AM in her
pill box
VITAMIN D-3 2,000 unit Capsule,

Cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit TECHNIQUE:





A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically  satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of 7-
8 Hz theta, alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  The
overall background includes a small amount of disorganization and excess theta



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


Sleep is not sustained

Mild generalized slowing is present.

Shifting focal slowing is present In the temporal regions right greater than left.  Brief bursts of
irregular mixed theta delta lasting a few seconds are noted in drowsiness


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Rare (<1hour) there are handful of well-defined left anterior temporal sharp and slow wave
complexes maximum at T1.  In addition, there is a well-defined T2 sharp wave with a handful of
bursts of sharply contoured slowing from the right




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:      Photic Stimulation: Subtle driving is noted at intermediate flash
frequencies



EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:


1.  Mild background slowing and disorganization with excess theta.

2.  Well-defined temporal sharp waves, left greater than right, overall infrequent

3.  Temporal focal slowing, right greater than left



CLINICAL CORRELATION: The background slowing and disorganization is nonspecific, but relatively
typical for an underlying neurodegenerative process such as dementia.  The temporal sharp waves
support and ongoing potential for seizures
