HISTORY:

40 y.o. male with a history of two episodes of unresponsiveness after taking dietary
supplements referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth every 12 hours.

cyclobenzaprine (FLEXERIL) 10 mg tablet,


oxyCODONE-acetaminophen (PERCOCET) 5-325 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 4
hours as needed.



No current facility-administered medications for this visit.



SEDATION: None


TECHNIQUE:




A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG HV, and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is
characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.3 Hertz, 40 uV posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.




Patient is very drowsy and transitions in and out of sleep. During drowsiness, slow rolling eye
movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse
background slowing are seen. Rhythmic central theta noted in drowsiness.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. POSTs were present. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: Produces increases in the amplitude in the background.



Photic Stimulation: Vigorous harmonic and super harmonic driving noted.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:




This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no clinical or electrographic events
reported or detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.

A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
