HISTORY:

48 y.o. male with a history of lymphoma referred for routine EEG for evaluation
of altered mental status and choreiform movements.



MEDICATIONS:


No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.





SEDATION: 3 mg Ativan



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and tactile stimulation. The patient has involuntary
movements of the left arm and we placed EMG electrode on L arm.






EEG BACKGROUND:

The background is characterized by two patterns. There is a low voltage featureless pattern with
frontal 8-11 hz activity, without clear posterior dominant rhythm. Initially there is a beta asymmetry
with more beta on the left than the right. Intermittently in wakefulness the overall background is
primarily a diffuse alpha-theta pattern with prominent frontal alpha and a small amount of shifting
arrhythmic delta.





Sleep is identified later in the record as the ativan becomes effective and is characterized by an
increase in beta and rhythmic slowing. Deeper stages of sleep include low to medium amplitude
delta pattern.


Electrode artifacts and muscle twitch artifact persist into sleep.



Significant generalized slowing is present.

In terms of focal slowing, asymmetry is present only in the beginning of the record after the patient
has received ativan.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Tactile stimulation of the patient produced beta, muscle artifact, and
involuntary movements of the left arm with facial twitching.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Significant generalized slowing


2. Replacement of normal background with mixed frequency background without posterior dominant
rhythm

3. Right sided attenuation of beta noted only briefly at the start of the record



CLINICAL CORRELATION:




The ativan may have contributed to the pattern described. No epileptiform features. Stimulation of
the patient elicited involuntary left arm movements.
