HISTORY:

82 y.o. male with a history of seizures, presenting with ongoing face scrunching
and tremors, as well as seizures and memory decline since June, referred for routine EEG for
evaluation of paroxysmal events and characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Primidone


(previously noted to be on Lamictal)


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:



The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with excess of theta, and with a symmetric and reactive 7.5-8 Hertz
posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and
amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and further
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Frequent bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

A single left frontal (Fp1/F7 max) sharp-and-wave discharge is noted out of drowsiness.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) produces time-
locked eyeblink artifact (photomyoclonic response).




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing


2. Frequent bitemporal independent polymorphic slowing

3. A single left frontal (Fp1/F7 max) sharp-and-wave discharge







CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate the presence of a potentially epileptogenic focus of left frontal origin, as well
as bitemporal cerebral dysfunction, which may be structural or physiologic in origin. There is
additional evidence for a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
