HISTORY:


55 y.o. male with a history ofTBI, epilepsy, admitted for seizure vs CVA referred for
routine EEG for characterization of seizures.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Facility-Administered Medications:

thiamine tablet 100 mg multivitamin (THERA) tablet 1 tablet


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 750 mg

lisinopril (PRINIVIL,ZESTRIL) tablet 5 mg LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg

TECHNIQUE:


A bedside Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG    This EEG was remarkable for
great deal of muscle artifact superimposed upon a low voltage pattern




EEG BACKGROUND:



The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and generous  beta frequencies, with a scant, symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is
present. There is excess beta noted. There is also diffuse underlying 4-6 Hz theta activity.  A breach
rhythm is suggested by an increase in amplitude in the right posterior quadrant primarily
characterized by excess beta.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.


Sleep is defined by increase in beta

Mild generalized slowing is present.  Both excess muscle and excess beta are also present

Subtle  focal slowing is present.  Although there is some eye movement artifact noted in the left
frontal region, there is an amplitude accentuation of the right posterior quadrant with a bit more
prominent theta in that region




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Excess theta, with suggestion of R posterior focal slowing in the region of likely breach

CLINICAL CORRELATION:


The low voltage pattern described above is a nonspecific finding and is not considered pathological.
The EEG is confounded by the amount of muscle artifact.  There is a well-defined posterior
dominant rhythm although it is not prominent.  The excess beta is nonspecific and may be part of
postictal state.  The focal slowing may be correlated with imaging
