HISTORY:

20 y.o. male with a history of seizures referred for routine EEG for evaluation of
paroxysmal events.



MEDICATIONS:

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.


No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: benzodiazepines


TECHNIQUE:


A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.



EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is characterized by the presence of diffuse and nearly continuous low voltage
beta activity. There is no clear posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) seen. The normal anterior-to-
posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is absent. Eye blinks are seen however. During the
course of the recording, the patient is extubated at 9:58AM. He is seen to open his eyes and blink,
There is minimal change in the background cerebral activity.





During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



No generalized slowing is present.

No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 80 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous low voltage beta activity.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:




These findings may be seen in patient receiving benzodiazepines or other sedating medications.No
clinical or electrographic seizures are seen.
