HISTORY:

58 y.o. woman admitted on 06/01/2016 for resection of recurrent meningioma.
PMH: Right temporal tumor resection (2004), HTN, HIV



MEDICATIONS:


Insulin, Dexamethasone, Theragran, Protonix, Neurontin, Doxazocin, Nifedipine, Oxycodone,
Amitriptyline, Keppra



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:





The waking background is characterized by the presence of a poorly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.  Excess 5-7
Hz activity is seen in wakefulness.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is limited and characterized by asymmetric symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles. Slow wave
sleep was not captured.




Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the fronto central region maximal at F4 during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. There is an increased amplitude and faster frequencies
seen consistent with a breach rhythm.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

1. Continuous focal slowing in the right frontal region and breach.


2. Mild excess theta in wakefulness.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to continuous focal slowing in the right
frontal region.  This finding is indicative of structural focal cerebral dysfunction in this region, which is
consistent with the known surgery and tumor removal. In addition there is evidence of mild diffuse
background slowing.  This findings is an etiologically nonspecific indicator of mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.
