HISTORY:

38 y.o. male with a history of TBI (1997) with subsequent seizures, reporting
increase in seizure frequency and short term memory loss, referred for routine EEG for
characterization of seizures. Semiology described as lightheadedness, jerking, tongue biting, then
LOC.



MEDICATIONS:

Current Outpatient Prescriptions:


oxycodone-acetaminophen (LYNOX) 5-300 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 4 hours as
needed for Pain.

azithromycin (ZITHROMAX) 250 mg tablet, Take 250 mg by mouth daily.


meloxicam (MOBIC) 15 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.

Dextromethorphan-Guaifenesin 10-200 mg/5 mL Liquid, Take 10 mLs by mouth 4 times daily as
needed.


carBAMazepine (CARBATROL) 100 mg 12 hr capsule, Take 200 mg by mouth every 12 hours.

divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 500 mg 24 hr tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2 times daily.


ALBUTEROL IN, Inhale  into the lungs.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly organized symmetric mixture of
alpha, beta, and theta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7-8 Hertz posterior dominant
rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present but
suboptimal.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and further background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured



Mild generalized slowing is present.

Shifting bihemispheric polymorphic slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces
mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce
any EEG changes.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.






HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization

2. Shifting bihemispheric polymorphic slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of a mild bihemispheric dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.


If clinically warranted, a recording with sleep may be helpful.






















































