HISTORY:

56 y.o. male who presented to the ED for

confusion and


routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.


MEDICATIONS: protonix, lovenox, ASA, lisionpril



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:




The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a

mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta


activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz


posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically

with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric POSTS, vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Occasional runs of sharp waves are seen in drowsiness over the

left temporal region (F7 max). These have the appearance of


wicket waves, a benign variant.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:


This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no

clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.


Occasional runs of sharp waves seen in drowsiness over the left

temporal region (F7 max) have the appearance of wicket waves, a


benign variant.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.
