HISTORY:


27 y.o. male with a past history of epilepsy

(suspected IGE), presenting with altered mental status. He

suffered a generalized tonic clonic seizure within the past week


and has been sleep deprived. He had been tapering off his

oxcarbazepine, but this was restarted after the seizure. He

presented to the emergency room today because he is


himself.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

zonisamide (ZONEGRAN) 100 mg capsule, Take 4 tablets at bedtime

OXcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) 150 mg tablet, Take 3 tablets once per


day





SEDATION: None





TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG.



Events were marked by the clinical staff. All clinical events as

well as extensive random background samples including

wakefulness, drowsiness, and sleep were reviewed.



DAY 1 (10/4/2015, 17:05 - 10/5/2015, 06:00)



BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous, symmetric, fairly

well-organized, and consists predominantly of theta with excess

of delta frequencies.



Posterior dominant rhythm is 6 Hz.



The background is reactive and variable.


There are no persistent asymmetries in amplitude and frequency.



Sleep is characterized by symmetric spindles and K complexes,


with excess of delta frequencies.


Note that the record is disconnected between 02:59 and 04:40 on

10/5.



PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


1. Occasional left temporal (T3 max) sharp transients, activated

by sleep



EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events were reported or


detected.


DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is an abnormal video EEG due to:


1. Moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction and suboptimal

background organization


2. Occasional left temporal (T3 max) sharp transients, activated

by sleep


These findings are consistent with a potential epileptogenic


focus in the left temporal region, as well as moderate diffuse

cerebral dysfunction.

