HISTORY:

22 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy, recent exacerbation after smoking K2
referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


"22 yo M w/ no past medical history presents with LOC. The patient was confused but able to provide
a minimal history. He states he was sitting on the stairs and lost consciousness. He does not
remember why he was sitting down. When he regained consciousness he was confused, weak and
nauseaous. He denies any shaking, chest pain, palpitations, lightheadedness or dizziness. He does
report being nauseous. He also states that he donated blood earlier today."



MEDICATIONS:

No current facility-administered medications for this encounter.


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

phenytoin (DILANTIN) 50 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth every 8 hours for 360 days.

SEDATION: Ativan



TECHNIQUE: A bedside portable Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was
recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system.
This was a technically  satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and  Stimulation.
Patient was very restlees







EEG BACKGROUND: The waking background is characterized by the presence of a  symmetric
mixture of theta, alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 7 Hertz posterior
dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is
present.

During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen. Sleep is not sustained. Patient is restless


Mild generalized slowing and disorganization is present.


No focal slowing is present.


EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):  None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: cognitive stimulation does not alter the background

EVENTS: There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Somewhat slow and disorganized pattern


CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are non-specific and may represent a post ictal pattern.
Correlation with a repeat study, when the patient is back to baseline may be of value, as would HV
and photic stimulation.
