HISTORY:

68 y.o. female with a history of  large

chronic right MCA infarct.


Chronic infarct in the high right frontal and parietal lobes in

the

right MCA distribution, and new onset twitching routine EEG for


characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


Current Outpatient Prescriptions:

aspirin (BAYER) 325 mg Tablet tablet, Take 650 mg by mouth daily.

docusate sodium (COLACE) 100 mg capsule, Take 100 mg by mouth 2


times daily.

ferrous gluconate (FERGON) 325 mg (37 mg iron) tablet, Take 324

mg by mouth daily (with breakfast).


hydralazine (APRESOLINE) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg by mouth 3




times daily.

levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 500 mg by mouth 2


times daily.

methimazole (TAPAZOLE) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth 3 times


daily.

omeprazole (PRILOSEC) 20 mg capsule, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.

warfarin (COUMADIN) 4 mg tablet, Take 4 mg by mouth daily.

warfarin (COUMADIN) 5 mg tablet, Take 5 mg by mouth daily.



current facility-administered medications for this visit.


Keppra


SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was


recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2

electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a  technically

satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and

verbal;stimulation.  This was a challenging bedside record.  The


patient is stimulated, the EEG is obscured by muscle and then she

rapidly drifts off to sleep



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is often obscured by muscle but there is an

asymmetric and reactive  7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).


The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and

amplitude is present.  The alpha rhythm is disrupted on the left


and when the patient becomes drowsy, it drops out first on the

left.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and


fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.



Sleep is vertex



Generalized slowing is present.


Focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation

are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are  no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG due to:


1. generalized background slowing

2. left focal slowing

3. excessive drowsiness



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings may be correlated with imaging, particularly in


light of previous large cortical stroke.  No epileptiform

features were identified
