HISTORY:

22 y.o. male with a history of concussion and

hypothermia in 2013 referred for routine EEG for characterization

of seizures.  Recently diagnosed with tonic-clonic seizures


MEDICATIONS:


No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.

SEDATION: none


TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a  technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG, HVand photic stimulation.


EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a


mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta

activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.

Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5

Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates


symmetrically with eye opening.  In wakefulness, there is a small

amount of excess beta and a small amount of disorganization



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse

background slowing are seen.


Sleep is not sustained


No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Elicits bursts of mixed frequency

activity, frontally predominant, slightly asynchronous


Photic Stimulation: Elicits bilateral driving



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:This is a mildly abnormal EEG for an adult of this age

to:

Mild background disorganization for a subject of this age

There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or


detected.



CLINICAL CORRELATION:

The findings described above are quite mild.  This is the second

EEG for this young adult which does not demonstrate epileptiform

activity


This routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.































