HISTORY:

51 y.o. male with a history of R MCA and localization related epilepsy, admitted
with acute delirium due to etoh abuse, found unresponsive w/ bowel/bladder incontinence on 7/25,
now referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.




MEDICATIONS:

Dilantin 300 qhs



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record
and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is continuous and reactive but asymmetric.



The left hemisphere consists of a well organized mixture of alpha and frontal beta.

The right hemisphere consists of fairly organized mixture of alpha and theta and delta.


There is a posterior dominant rhythm of 10 Hz, better formed over the left.



During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm and diffuse
background slowing are seen.



Sleep is not captured





EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

Abundant (>1/10s) right fronto-temporal (F8 max > T4/F4) sharp-and-wave complexes, often periodic
at 1 Hz for runs <5 sec.


Occasional right posterior temporal (T6 max) sharp-and-wave complexes

Often these epileptiform discharges are reflected over the left hemisphere.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:

1. Continuous right hemispheric polymorphic slowing

2. Abundant (>1/10s) right fronto-temporal (F8 max > T4/F4) sharp-and-wave complexes, often
periodic at 1 Hz for runs <5 sec.


3. Occasional right posterior temporal (T6 max) sharp-and-wave complexes



CLINICAL CORRELATION:






These findings indicate the presence of a highly epileptogenic focus over the right temporal
(including fronto-temporal and posterior temporal) region, superimposed on right hemispheric
dysfunction, likely structural in etiology. These findings can be seen in the setting of a seizure and a
known structural lesion. A follow up study is recommended in 1-2 days to assess for interval change.
