HISTORY: 72 y.o. female with a history of seizures, now presents in status epilepticus.    MEDICATIONS: Keppra, Depakote, Dilantin, tegretol  SEDATION: Ativan PRN  TECHNIQUE: A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.   DAY 1  BACKGROUND: The waking background is characterized by the presence of a 9-10 Hz polymorphic low amplitude alpha activity posteriorly, poor AP (anterior-to-posterior) gradient and diffuse polymorphic theta and beta activity.   During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.   Waveforms resembling sleep spindles are noted.    Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity is captured over the bitemporal regions.    EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: Abundant (>1/10s) synchronous and asynchronous high amplitude bilateral anterior temporal sharps with after going slow waves are observed.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over T1 and T2 leads. Right temporal epileptiform discharges are frequently followed by ~ 1-2 seconds of nonevolving 3 Hz sharply contoured delta activity.  To a much lesser degree, left temporal epileptiform discharges are followed by ~1-2 seconds of nonevolving 5 Hz sharply contoured theta activity.  Occasional brief seizures are captured from ~ 6 pm till ~ 10 pm.  Ativan is given at ~ 10:08 PM with no seizures seen for the rest of the recording epoch. Seizures last ~ 7-15 seconds and have no clear clinical correlate.  Electrographically, they are characterized by rhythmic ~3-4 Hz activity that is seen over the right temporal region or over the bilateral temporal regions.  This activity subtly increases in frequency and stops abruptly (examples 7:54 pm and 9:22 pm).     DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is an abnormal nearly 19-hour long term video EEG due to: 1. Mild diffuse slowing 2. Continuous moderate bitemporal focal slowing 3. Abundant synchronous and asynchronous high amplitude bilateral anterior temporal epileptiform discharges.  CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific. There are structural cerebral epileptogenic abnormalities over the bitemporal regions.   -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 2  BACKGROUND: increase in diffuse low amplitude polymorphic delta activity.   FOCAL SLOWING: No change  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: similar in appearance today #1.  However, it significantly decreases by the end of the recording epoch, left temporal epileptiform discharges are especially diminished.    EVENTS: seizures restart around 8:51 am, with left temporal seizures are being predominant seizure type.  Left temporal seizures start with rhythmic low amplitude fast activity that gradually decreases in frequency and increases in amplitude.  Throughout the day, they occur up to 5 times per hour, last ~10-25 seconds and have no clinical correlate.  No seizures present from ~ 12:16 am till ~5:24 am.   DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION Abnormal 24 hour recording due to  Independent right and left temporal seizures occurring up to 5 times per hour with improvement in seizure frequency after adjustment of AEDs.  Progressive increase in the degree of the background slowing is likely related to the medications administered.  -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 3   BACKGROUND: remains without change until the patient is electively intubated around 1:50 pm.  Following intubation, the background consists of diffuse fast activity, periods of discontinuity and under riding slow delta activity   SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: poorly formed right temporal epileptiform discharges are seen early in the recording epoch.  They resolve and are not seen by the half point of the recording.  EVENTS: brief typical left temporal electrographic seizures continue at ~ 1 per hour until the patient is intubated.  They are no longer present after intubation.   DAY 3 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION  Abnormal 24 hour recording due to seizures captured in the first half of the recording.  They resolve after intubation. There is also diffuse background slowing due to medication administered.  -----------------------------------------------------------------  DAY 4   BACKGROUND: There is no PDR or AP gradient. The background consists of diffuse excess beta activity with superimposed slow delta activity and periods of discontinuity.  No normal sleep architecture is captured.  PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM): None  SPORADIC EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None  EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events reported or detected     DAY 4 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION Abnormal 24 hour continuous video EEG due to diffuse background slowing that is related to medications that patient receives. No electrographic seizures are captured. 
