HISTORY:

26 y.o. female with a history of syncope and

amnestic spells referred for routine EEG for evaluation of


paroxysmal events and characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS:


No current outpatient prescriptions on file.

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.




SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A  Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was

recorded using the International 10-20 system with T1/T2


electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically




marginal record and included a single channel of EKG, HVand

photic stimulation. Prominent left sided muscle and R head


rocking artifact were seen in wakefullness.



EEG BACKGROUND:

There is limited good quality wakefullness. The waking background

is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a

moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal


anterior-to-posterior gradient.  Wakefulness is characterized by

a symmetric and reactive  10.0 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm


(PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.


During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. POSTS.  Abundant stage II sleep. Slow wave sleep was

not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.  No focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

No epileptiform activity is present.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:


Hyperventilation: elicits bilateral theta/



Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21


flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which

is a normal finding. Patient falling asleep during photics.



EVENTS:


There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.  There are no


clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:

This is a limited but  normal drowsy and asleep  routine EEG.


A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of

epilepsy.  If epilepsy is an important consideration, consider


repeat 1 hour study.
