HISTORY:

62 y.o. male with a history of traumatic right parieto-occipital skull fracture,
multifocal left intracerebral hemorrhage, bilateral perisylvian subarachnoid bleeding and left parietal
subdural hematoma, status post right frontal ventriculostomy. He has had intermittent seizures with
right tonic gaze and arm stiffening. He has additional history of alcohol abuse and prior seizures.
This is a follow-up bedside EEG for evaluation of paroxysmal events.





MEDICATIONS:

Valproic acid, Ativan.



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded at the bedside using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.




EEG BACKGROUND:


The patient was poorly responsive during much of the tracing. Background activity demonstrated a
large amount of low voltage 1-3 Hz activity which was generalized in distribution along with
occasional poorly organized low to medium amplitude 8-9 Hz activity over central, temporal greater
than occipital scalp regions. A small to moderate amount of low voltage 18-25 Hz activity was seen
over frontal, central and temporal scalp areas. Periods of increased drowsiness was seen with
attenuation of faster frequency activity and increased generalized low amplitude delta and theta
frequency slowing. In response to verbal stimulation and sternal rub, increased muscle artifact along
with poorly organized central and posterior alpha frequency activity were noted.






Sleep is not captured



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

None



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:



Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.


Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation is not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and drowsy  routine EEG due to:


1. Background disorganization and increased generalized slowing.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings indicate a generalized disturbance of cerebral activity without any clinical or
electrical seizures and with no paroxysmal epileptiform activity recorded. Changes are similar to
those noted on 6/28, although attenuation of faster frequency activity on his previous EEG is not
apparent in today's record.
